If the inflation data continues to be
held back by uh lower energy prices, it
all softens the economic blow.
>> There should be a pullback in demand. We
haven't seen it yet.
>> The consumer slows down, but the rate of
change of inflation will jump. Those
that had the capability brought a lot of
inventory in. Going through that level
of inventory has not yielded the pass
through to consumers that some have
seen, but it'll come.
>> Ultimately, I do think that we're going
to see more softness in the second half
on activity.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Wednesday, following three days
without gains, the NASDAQ 100 suffering
its second biggest 1-day drop since
April as investors look to target
earnings for another read on the US
consumer. Economists on Wall Street will
be passing some dated Fed meeting
minutes as officials head to Jackson
Hole.
>> Are we blaming Jackson Hole for the air
pocket that we saw yesterday? Is it the
potential for some sort of catalyst from
JPEL coming out and saying maybe I'm not
going to cut rates uh next month? of
course in clouded economic language. Or
is it that we did get some reports
yesterday that indicated maybe some of
the froth was getting blown off the top
of AI? Either way, it feels like we're
in a holding pattern and people are
trying to fill that holding pattern with
one thing or another to justify some
pretty significant moves based on at
least the past couple of months.
>> These were some of the major winners of
the past few months. Nvidia had had a
run of something like 90% off the April
low. That's a stellar rally. If you look
at the performance yesterday, strip out
the muscle of big tech outperformance on
the equal weight. The rest of the equity
market doing okay.
>> You could argue this was a violent
repositioning as sort of a cycling
within the equity market as people take
a look at the 33 times earnings of the
Magnificent 7 saying it's getting a
little bit heady at a time where people
are talking about being priced to
perfection and saying the rest of the
493 look better. If there are rate cuts,
if there is the stimulative effects of
the one big beautiful bill, all of a
sudden we're looking at that perfect
cycle that might benefit these other
names rather than the big tech.
Ultimately, are we just creating stories
right now?
>> Later on this afternoon, we'll create
another story. Fed minutes around. How
dated are those Fed minutes?
>> Well, the one thing that will be
interesting is Fed independence and how
much that was sort of nodded to. Is that
part of the discussion in any way,
shape, or form in terms of monetary
policy? I don't think anyone's going to
expect to take cues from these
particular minutes, but the beat, the
drum beat is getting louder and louder
when it comes to Fed independence. You
hear about what's going on with some of
the nominees, get them in quick. You
hear some more aggressive uh come uh
some aggressive attacks on additional
Fed governors, Lisa Cook. All of a
sudden, it starts to be a real question
of how they address that.
>> We had two big dissents at the last
meeting. How much daylight is between
the uh denters and the rest of the
committee? That's one question. And
after payroll, how does the committee
choose the Federal Reserve, the
institution choose to massage these
minutes just to reflect the fact that
the chairman was calling everything
solid in the news conference and then
the numbers we saw afterwards were less
than solid?
>> Is there a sense of the confusion or the
lack of certainty around what the data
is actually saying? Is there a renewed
emphasis or do they just make them
really short and say we don't know, stay
tuned. And that I think is what a lot of
people are expecting.
>> There's a lot we don't know. We'll find
out a little bit later how much the Fed
doesn't know this afternoon when we get
those Federal Reserve minutes going into
Jackson Hole. We got some earnings just
moments ago. Those earnings came from
Lowe's. I'll start with the outlook.
Lease will give you the rest of the
numbers. They see fullear total sales.
Here's the range 84.5 billion to 85.5
billion. They had seen the previous
range 83.5 to 84.5.
The stock is up in a pre-market, Lisa,
by 1.4%. Yeah, when you sort of bleed in
the total sales, the adjustment EPS
expected to be higher than expected.
Fullyear capex also expected to come in
higher than expected at about $2.5
billion. And this really is interesting.
Lowe's is planning to buy foundation
building materials for about $ 8.8
billion. The reason why I find this
interesting is because A, we've been
wondering when deals are going to come
back. B, there's this feeling that the
bigger that a company is, the better
position it will have to manage through
a lot of the tariff situation. And see,
this really suggests a certainty, maybe
a picking up at the bottom. This promise
that maybe there is a better future
forward, at least for the housing
market, which has been perpetually
beaten up.
>> A beat, a raise, and an acquisition. The
stock is up in a pre-market by 1.5%.
We'll come back to earnings from
retailers a little bit later on this
morning. Target at about 6:30 Eastern
time. Coming up this hour, we'll catch
up with Brian Nick of New Edge Wealth on
the sell-off in big tech. Scott
Lindseker of the KO Institute as the
White House looks to invest in chip
makers and Eugenio Elman of Reman James
following earnings from Target. We begin
this hour with stock steady following
the NASDAQ 100's second worst day since
April. Brian Nick of New Edge Wealth
writing, "It's hard to pinpoint an exact
driver for the spark that caused the
sell-off. In the thin trading days of
August, with crowded positioning, it
becomes more about the dry kindling than
the spark itself." Brian joins us now
for more. Brian, good morning. Good to
see you.
>> Morning. Thanks for having me.
>> What was yesterday about then? Let's get
into it.
>> Even with the benefit of hindsight, it's
hard to pick a specific thing that
happened. But the the the headlines, if
you didn't read past them about Meta
restructuring some of its AI
organization, that could have supplied
the initial concern, selloff, and then
it becomes because there's very heavy
positioning in these names and there is
lingering concerns about what's going to
happen on Friday with PAL. There just
aren't those buyers to come in and scoop
up these names the way there have been
so many times over the past few weeks.
So the interesting thing about this
session will be do we see a bounce back
as people see there wasn't really much
news driving it or are those lingering
concerns about Friday going to continue
to to kind of keep things
>> do you see good reason for there to be a
bounce back into Jackson Hole into
Friday into earnings for Nvidia a week
away
>> so I'm not sure that that big tech is
really the most vulnerable to risk on
Friday if there's a downside risk to J
Pal's comments it's going to be
something that might ding home builders
that are up you know 15% this quarter
that have been largely an interest rate
trade if he comes out and throws some
cold water on the idea that the the rate
cut is baked in for September. Those
stand to be some of the more vulnerable
sectors. REITs also um AI has not been
as interest rate sensitive. So there
could be just overall concerns about
what happens if financial conditions
stay too tight and what that means for
AI and AI capex and the economy
generally. But I wouldn't put them at
the top of the list of most vulnerable
to a hawkish outcome this week.
>> This is a fascinating point, especially
given some of the earnings that we've
been getting. We just talked about lows
coming out uh a beat and a raise. It's
different than what we've seen from
others. We've seen more mly kinds of
performance yesterday. Toll Brothers had
a more disappointing outlook and there
have been another uh a number of others
as well. Do you get the sense that we
are bottoming out in one of this the
most pivotal industries of the United
States economy which is housing? Do you
get the sense that that could be a
driver going forward or is that maybe a
little bit of an inflated view?
>> Yeah, I'm concerned that we have four
rate cuts baked in for the next year and
long-term interest rates really haven't
come down much at all and mortgage rates
haven't started to come down. We're
seeing people start to pull homes that
they've listed off of of of the of the
market in an increasing way and that
that's not a healthy sign for the
housing market. The building permits
numbers were as weak as they've been in
the cycle. We have the same number of
building permits for single family homes
as we did in March of 2020 um in the
sort of in the in the onflux of the
pandemic. So, uh, I would be concerned
that if you're looking for certainty
that long-term rates are going to come
down and that's going to benefit the
sectors like housing that it
traditionally would that we're we're
just not seeing it yet. And and even if
we get those rate cuts, that's not
necessarily going to bring down
long-term rates. If you have more
stimulus coming, if you have uncertainty
about inflation and also the Fed not
vowing to cut rates a lot, I'm sure if
Pal talks at all about cutting rates,
it's going to be sort of incremental
steps ahead. There's just as many people
in the FOMC that don't want to cut rates
at all this year as those that want to
go twice.
>> So to put this together with the point
that John was making earlier, how much
does this make you want to buy this air
pocket when it comes to big tech? If you
don't actually believe that this is the
overvalued part of the market, that in
fact this is the most immune to some of
the cyclical questions that we have that
are vulnerable to a surprise in Jackson
Hole. How much are you rotating back to
big tech even after just a pretty small
relative decline? Yeah, I I put this in
in slightly different way that if you
wanted to look for sort of the biggest
bang for your buck, if you think that
we're in this sort of new inflection
point, interest rates going to come
down, the 493 are going to start to do
better, you'd be overweight, things like
midcap, small cap, which we are not
right now. We're underweight those
areas. We're still overweight, large
cap, albeit more kind of on the value
side. Uh so we're kind of playing both
sides of the fence a little bit. But
yet, yes, it's hard to find, you know,
if you're going to be in a slower growth
environment, which we think we're going
to be in this one and a halfish% growth
environment. That's largely where
consensus is too. In a slowing growth
environment, you're going to pay a
premium for high growth companies that
aren't necessarily as cyclally sensitive
as the the balance of the market. And I
think that's that's the signal we've
been seeing all summer.
>> See this news on McDonald's, Wall Street
Journal this morning. McDonald's
lowering the cost of its combo meals
after consumers were left sticker
shocked by Big Mac meals that climbed to
$18 in some places. There's some
pressure on some companies out there.
Might not be the Invidas of this world,
but certainly elsewhere. This is the
reason why there is so much confusion at
a time where you have sky-high
valuations in some sectors at least
relative to history of how well the
economy is doing, how much it matters to
those valuations given how divorced it
has been, how specific it has been to
big tech. We've seen this with a number
of retailers competing on price to get
market share and we're expecting to see
that with Walmart as well. What does
that tell you about the health of the
consumer?
>> Howard Marx joins us a little bit later
from Oak Tree. In his latest memo, he
wrote about the calculus of value. And
within that piece, he went through
potential sources of worry and he looked
at the 493 and the Magnificent 7 and
really based on my read of things really
pointed to the 493 as a bigger potential
source of worry here. And that seems to
be what Brian is talking about as well.
the idea that people say there are these
inflated valuations for the Magnificent
7, 33 times earning, but when you take a
look at the 1990s.com bubble or even
before that, you're looking at
valuations of 50 60 times earnings. So,
this is a different time for a a
paradigm shift in tech. The rest of the
companies depending on a real change in
the cycle, a real getting better of the
world that maybe isn't quite happening.
>> Brian, can we finish there? just the
best benchmark for valuations right now.
What is it? What is the appropriate
benchmark for valuations? Do you break
up the 493 versus the 7? What do you
look at?
>> So, we definitely look at the equal
weight S&P um which doesn't look
extraordinarily cheap. It's not as if
everything else is at bargain basement
prices and it's all being pushed up. Um
things like like Schiller PE which you
know have I think have their uses one of
the best projectors of long-term returns
is going to be cyclically adjusted.
that's in that above 35 times territory
where every time it's been there, it's
not only been vulnerable to five 10 year
periods of underperformance, but really
one-year shocks as well. Um, and that's
really we've really only been there a
few times at the end of 2021 and at the
end of the 1990s. So, those are things
that, you know, are kind of maybe not
flashing red lights, but flashing yellow
orange lights when we're looking at the
equity market.
>> Brian, Nick of New Edge Wealth. Brian,
good to see you. Looking forward to
catching up with Howard Marks later on
this morning. I believe that's taking
place at 8:30 Eastern time. Yeah, very
curious to see where he sees risk and
reward. The idea maybe the risk lies in
some stocks that people are saying are
less overvalued than the Magnificent 7.
This question of how do you value some
of these assets, a real key one,
>> three days without gains on the S&P 500
could become day four. We're down about
a tenth of 1% on the S&P with an update
on stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahar Yahara Arnand with
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We start with Lowe's shares are
rising 1.4% 4% in the pre-market after
earnings. The retailer delivered a beat
and raised its sales outlook for the
year. The home improvement retailer also
announcing plans to purchase foundation
building materials for roughly 88 $8.8
billion in cash. Meanwhile, sources
telling Reuters that US Commerce
Secretary Howard Lutnik is looking into
government equity stakes in Intel as
well as other chip companies. The stakes
will be in exchange for grants under the
chips act. That piece of legislation was
signed into law under the Biden
administration to to boost domestic
semiconductor production. And over in
the UK, inflation climbed to an 18month
high amid surging costs for food, fuel,
and transportation. Consumer prices rose
3.8% compared to a year ago, exceeding
expectations. The July reading does
little to settle debate within the Bank
of England over the path of policy after
the tightest of decisions this month
when ra rates were cut a quarter point
to 4%. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yihara in
about 30 minutes time. Up next on the
program, a new brand of US state craft.
>> As for this 10% government stake deal,
the Department of Commerce continues to
work on it. I know Secretary Lutnik um
is working on it and ironing out the
details, but the president um wants to
put America's needs first um both from a
national security and economic
perspective.
>> That conversation up next with Scott
Lindum of the KO Institute live from New
York City this morning. Good morning
Monik.
[Music]
Howard Marks joining the program a
little bit later this morning, 8:30
Eastern time on his latest memo, the
calculus of value. Look out for that
conversation a little bit later on
Bloomberg Surveillance. To check out the
equity market story right now, the price
action shaping up as follows. Futures
negative a tenth of 1% on the S&P. We're
down by 0.14 on the Nasdaq. Nvidia
bouncing back just a little bit in this
morning's session following the biggest
one day drop since April for that stock.
Today is the true test about whether
this is a sell-off with legs, whether
this is an air pocket that might just be
bought. This to me is a real test. Do
you see people come in and try to pick
up the opportunities after a more than
1% decline in the NASDAQ for the first
time going back to August 1st? Or do you
see people saying maybe this is telling
us something? We should listen. The
messages are coming.
>> Snoozy Wednesday coming right up. I hope
at least
>> that's your thought yesterday was going
to be a snoozy Tuesday.
>> Turned out to be very exciting. I've got
some abuse yesterday after the downdraft
in the aftermarket.
>> I told you. I I mean, I basically warned
everybody.
>> There's no catalyst for any of this.
>> That's a week away. Jackson Hole on
Friday.
>> I mean, people are looking for things to
do cuz they're bored and then they fill
that hole. So, you know what? It's not
boring at all. It's very exciting. Stay
tuned.
>> That's the equity story. Okay. Alice
this morning, a new brand of US state
craft.
>> As for this 10% government stake deal,
the Department of Commerce continues to
work on it. I know Secretary Lutnik um
is working on it and ironing out the
details, but the president um wants to
put America's needs first um both from a
national security and economic
perspective. And it's a a creative idea
that has never been done before to
ensure that we're both reshoring these
critical um supply chains while also
gaining something of it for the American
taxpayer.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
White House looking to grow its stake in
the nation's chip sector. sources
telling Reuters that commerce secretary
Howard Lutnik is considering government
equity stakes in additional chip makers
beyond Intel. Bloomberg's Tom McKenzie
joins us now for more. Tom, good morning
sir. What's your read of thinks so far
this morning?
>> Yeah. Is this status capitalism with
with Trump characteristics? I'll put a
question mark over that. What you don't
need to put a question mark over is that
this is clearly a more interventionist
administration in the US right now. And
the reporting as we've been discussing
this week, John, the reporting aligning
with what we predicted or forecast,
which is that this may be a commerce
secretary, this may be a Trump
administration looking to take
additional stakes in other chip makers
because of course it's not just Intel
that's received the funding from the
chips act and is on course to receive
additional funding. It's also the likes
of Micron. They are front and center as
well. Is this a commerce secretary
willing now and wanting to take an
equity stake for the administration for
the US government in Micron? What about
TSMC? Of course, a Taiwanese company or
Samsung both also big beneficiaries and
to be beneficiaries of the chips act.
There are corporate risk to this that
would that's what the critics would say
corporate risks around this risks around
taxpayer funding. That's what the
critics would would push back on. But
clearly this is Trump administration
that is focused on key sectors and
wanting to get something in return. If
you want to have access, if you want to
build out your foundaries, if you want
to get those subsidies, then we want
something in return seems to be the
message.
>> Tom, you'd have to believe also there's
real risk for some of the foreign
earnings from some of these companies.
We had this conversation yesterday.
Intel gets about 30% of its revenue from
China. If the story was the other way
round and we were talking about a
chipmaker in China and the Chinese
government becoming more
interventionist, we'd have big questions
about their ability to sell into the US
and Europe and elsewhere. Why wouldn't
the opposite apply?
>> You would imagine, John, that the
Chinese authorities will be putting that
question and will be scrutinizing that
potential scenario if indeed this is
what this government does, taking that
10% equity stake in Intel. to what
extent Beijing will use the
infrastructure in terms of the
regulatory framework it's put in place
in recent years to put a noose around
some of those shipments into the Chinese
market as they of course continue to try
and build out their own capabilities. I
think that's going to be a key question
going forward and then of course the
response from Taipei if indeed TSMC
comes under pressure on terms of what
happens around innovation and what
happens around the US leadership on that
front. Does the Trump administration
then pressure on behalf of Intel, the
likes of Nvidia, the likes of Apple to
use Intel's foundaries to manufacture
their chips? That is another question
going forward for investors and for
those looking for the US to continue to
lead when it comes to innovation. Tom
McKenzie, thank you, sir. With the
latest out of London, it's conversation
we had with Angela Zenino just
yesterday.
>> Yeah, and right now it seems like
they're saying it's a non- voting stake,
but what's to say that could change?
We've seen untraditional,
non-traditional moves with Nvidia and
with uh others. I'm just wondering the
sands are shifting. They're constantly
shifting. How do you get some sort of
compass of what the overarching policy
really is here?
>> You can see where this is heading.
Ultimately, if you want a company to
help build out domestic foundry capacity
here in the United States, then also you
want other companies, fabulous companies
like Nvidia to use that capacity. So,
it's only a matter of time you'd imagine
that the next step is to basically push
those companies to do those things. Now,
we've not heard that from the
administration just yet, but I don't
think it's a big jump in the logic of
things to get there.
>> We It's just there's another issue here,
which is that this money is coming from
the CHIPS acts grants that haven't yet
been distributed that are now being
converted into some sort of equity
instrument. So, how do we even get to
that place? And what is this
arrangement, this contract? What is it
going to look like given that again the
shifting sands of what this actually
means continues to be a theme
>> on this story? Scott Lindum of the Kado
Institute joins us now for more. Scott,
welcome back to the program, sir. Let's
start with the big question. What are
the consequences for this economy from a
more interventionist White House?
>> Yeah, I mean, I think you see uh several
layers of consequences. I mean, start
with uh a company like Intel or uh other
companies that are receiving uh
subsidies from the US government, tariff
protection from the US government. Um,
do these companies, uh, if they're
giving equity, stakes, and the rest, do
they start producing things that are
more for political value than for
economic value? Um, Ohio fabs, for
example, for Intel, that big mega fab
complex. Um, do those things keep going
not because they're actually good,
productive investments, but because
they're in Ohio and the US government
has a strong political incentive to keep
them running. Um, I think you also have
concerns if you're competitors of these
new national champions or customers of
these new national champions as as we
just mentioned. Do American companies
now are they going to be pressured or
even forced to use Intel's chips or
these other things MP materials and
those minerals that the United States
government now has a stake in? Um, and
of course competitor companies that
aren't getting this type of government
benefit. um does capital flow away from
them and flow towards the government
supported champions um and then you know
I think the other big question is
foreign reaction to all this you know
the United States government uh has long
treated stateowned or stateinvested
enterprises as subsidy providers
themselves has long gone after these
companies with tariffs and other
measures of their own um now will
foreign governments look at American
exports from these companies and say
those are actually government goods or
government subsidized goods. There
really is a lot of Pandora's box issues
that are get opened with this stuff.
>> Before we even get there, Scott, and
this was a point that John was raising
yesterday and I think it's an incredibly
important point. How do we get from
CHIPS uh grant uh CHIPS act grants to
some sort of nonvoting equity portion in
a company? How do we transfer that? What
does that mean in terms of whether
companies are just going to reject some
of the chips act money that they were
promised that hasn't yet been dispersed?
What can you understand about how this
works out in a technical term?
>> Well, there's there's nothing in the law
to my knowledge that allows the US
government to offer equity instead of
grants. Um I think you know you're you
this is where you start seeing some very
creative lawyering from the commerce
department to somehow argue that they
have this type of authority inside the
chips act itself. Um but you know the
other thing is that saying that these
are going to stay non-controlling shares
I think is a really uh dubious
proposition. you know, if the whole goal
of converting this to equity is for the
government to make money and suddenly uh
the stock starts dropping for these
companies like Intel um or they start
doing things that the government doesn't
like with China, it's it's a really easy
and small step for that for that to
change to something that's more
controlling from the government. Scott,
just finally, we've seen a range, a
whole range of agreements between
trading nations over the last several
weeks or so. Haven't really seen any
real documents signed by both parties.
Do we just trust this agreement exists?
How does this work?
>> Well, uh, the foreign governments are
asking those same questions. You know,
in the journal today, there's, uh,
questions about when auto tariff relief
is coming for, uh, the big Japan trade
deal that was supposedly negotiated. I
think the bigger question though is for
companies on the ground. Uh there's just
simply there's still no certainty in the
market about the trading environment in
these bilateral transactions between
these trade deal parties because we
don't have the text. Uh if until then we
also have questions about not just the
terms but compliance. How do you
determine whether a a government is
complying with these new market access
promises? it, you know, it really is all
vapor wear until we see something on
paper.
>> Scott, appreciate your time. Thank you,
sir. Scott Lindcom there of the KO
Institute. Keep going back to a theme of
this program over the past month or so.
This is not an event, it's a process and
this process is a messy one so far and
we're all still trying to figure out the
details
>> and the devil has been in the details
for a pretty uh long period of time. So,
how can we really even assess what the
ramifications are? Again, the shifting
sands of 2025.
>> You like that, D?
>> I I think that seems to be a theme.
>> Sum up the year so far.
>> I mean it's definitely been shifting
>> like Dune.
>> No, I think Yeah. I mean Dune, not Doom.
>> No, Doom is in. Yeah, like Doom.
Definitely. Yeah. Yeah. And what are
those worms called?
>> That's what I'm saying. Like it's no
idea. I
>> really
>> I'm just digging.
>> Yes, you are
>> trying to work it out.
[Music]
The Sandwalk. That's what I was looking
for. Oh,
>> a Sandwalk.
>> Yeah, but what's the analogy, right?
Like, who are the worms? I mean, I
>> I'm working with that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But, but but the the truth
is,
>> give me a few hours.
>> Yeah. I don't want to make it sound like
an apo apocalyptic nightmare. I mean,
this isn't the case. It's just changes.
Change
>> investors are doing the sandwalk. Is
that where this is going? I don't know.
Like, you made this happen.
>> I did not make this happen. Shifting
sands of 2025 has this great poetic
meaning. It doesn't mean apocalypse now.
>> Okay. Futures negative by a tenth of 1%
on the S&P. We're down by 2/10 on the
NASDAQ 100. Three straight days without
gains on the S&P 500. The longest run
since the start of August. Let's get you
some movers, some morning movers. Here's
Danny Burger. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. A few earnings this morning.
30 minutes ago we heard from Lowe's.
What a reaction. Up 4 and a half%. A
positive reaction much like Home Depot
for them. They are buying a North
American distributor of interior
projects for $ 8.8 billion. So moving
more to the kind of corporate sector
versus just retail, but also their
earnings themselves. Everything in line
and upgraded their fullear outlook
despite some of the economic tension. So
that is being wellreceived. What is not
being wellreceived was Estee Lauder's
earnings. Those shares plunging in the
pre-market trade. At one point down 14%
now down just under 9%. It is a fullear
outlook that disappointed and perhaps
part of that has to do with tariffs.
They said that they're going to book
about hund00 million on tariffs for the
coming year saying that they're looking
at ways to mitigate that. Of course,
they're also highly exposed to China, so
that is hurting them at the moment.
Finally, we heard from Toll Brothers
after the bell yesterday. There earnings
also disappointed despite the fact that
they're more exposed to the luxury end
of things. They downgraded their outlook
for sales for the whole year. Orders
missed for the current quarter. The CEO
talking about we're resilient. There are
just some economic stressors. Barclays
took a look at the earnings and said
this confirms the slowly but surely
weakening housing market. Those shares
down about 2 and 3/4 of a percent. John
>> Danny Burgerer with the latest. Danny,
thank you. That stock getting knocked
around. That's the latest story in the
pre-market. Here's another one. It's
from Target. Earnings just dropping. We
need to deal with two separate things
here. The earnings report and then a
seuite change. The stock is down by 2%.
I think we should probably start with
the seauite change. Brian Cornell
stepping down.
>> Yeah. And he's going to be joining uh
the board of directors, but the chief
operating officer, Michael Fidelike, who
was the expected successor, is going to
be the successor as CEO. He will
effectively uh be the successor on
February 1st. So there is this
transition period. But all of a sudden,
this really shifts the focus of the
earnings call to exactly what is uh
Michael's plan to reshape the company,
give it profitability that it hasn't had
in the past. The earnings were better
than expected across the border with
comp sales in particular down just 1.9%
versus the estimated 3.02%.
Nonetheless, it's the strategy going
forward. How do you compete with
behemoths like Walmart, like Amazon?
>> So, that's going to dominate the call a
little bit later. Let's spend some time
on the numbers and some of the guidance.
Just a review of the quarter so far
coming from the company. Traffic sales
trends improved meaningfully compared
with the first quarter. All six core
merchandise categories saw comp sales
gains versus Q1. Stocks not doing well
off the back of any of this. But it just
speaks to the fact that we did see a
bounce back in the second quarter
relative to some of the nervousness to
start the year. Yeah, I'm very curious
to see exactly what they did with
inventory, how they got customers back
given that they did uh have a better
thanex expected showing and we have seen
some real kind of contradictions within
the retailers like McDonald's for
example lowering prices that would
indicate some sort of softness when it
comes to consumers. Then you see better
than expected earnings at places like
Target. Is this a competitive strategy?
Is this because pricing wasn't
necessarily that much of an issue ahead
of tariffs or is this that there is this
underlying strength in the US consumer
that maybe people are underestimating?
>> That's the broad story beyond the
industry. What about within the
industry? You've been on top of this
story now for years. Walmart really
going after Target in a bigger way.
Walmart, by the way, reports tomorrow
that competitive effort from Walmart has
hurt this company. How do you deal with
a company that has a broader mix of
products that at one point was thought
to be uh the cheaper side of the retail
world? Tar was sort of the cliche. The
idea that it has higherend types of
goods. Well, Walmart's trying to get
into that a little bit more and trying
to cater to a wealthier consumer while
also sticking to the grocery sector
while also building out their online
presence. How does Target compete with
that in a material way? That is what
people will be looking for on this call.
It's really been an issue and right now
you're seeing maybe some better than
expected earnings but clearly the stock
indicating there is some concern going
forward given the fact there are huge
competitive disadvantages that they have
right now and this is a very difficult
landscape that they're dealing in.
>> The stock down 10% in early trading.
Michael Fidela the incoming CEO saying
I'm stepping in with urgency to rebuild
momentum and return to profitable
growth. going on to say, "I've seen us
at our best and I've seen us when we are
not at our best." And that informs my
candid assessment of today where we have
work to do.
>> Yeah. And that's certainly the case. I
mean, right now you saw uh what we've
seen is two straight years of not
necessarily growing earnings and you've
seen inventory messes uh where they
bought too much and then they didn't
have enough. How do you turn that around
at a time where there is a very
complicated competitive landscape?
Especially given Walmart that on
Thursday is likely to come out and
saying we're going to compete on price.
>> Those earnings about a day away. Let's
stick with retail and the US consumer.
Eugenio Alaman for Ramen James writing
the following. Inflationary effects from
tariffs should start making inroads into
those nominal retail numbers and we
should expect to see weakness in
consumer demand during the rest of the
year. Eugenia joins us now for more.
Welcome to the program, sir. What's your
read on the US consumer? Let's just
build on what you said there. And how
broad-based will that weakness be?
>> Yeah, we have been seeing weakness in
the US consumer for a while. The first
two quarters of the year were relatively
low. I mean week and um as we expect the
full impact of tariffs uh continue to to
make in roads um we are expecting the
consumer to continue to slow down. Um so
our second third quarter and fourth
quarter uh expectation is very very weak
very very close to recession. Uh we we
are still not calling a recession. we
have 50% probability of recession but u
it is a very smooth uh slowing down of
the consumer there is no falling of um
of consumer demand but but it is
weakening I mean we have seen employment
numbers weaken considerably and that is
going to continue to uh keep the
consumer uh contained
>> can we focus on the potential for
further bifocation within the consumer
Eugeneia, this came from the Bank of
America Institute and they said total
credit and debit card spending per
household increased 1.8% year-over-year
in July, the highest growth rate since
January. So, a bounce back in spend in
July coming through the summer. But they
also said this, the difference in wage
growth between higher and lower income
households, the largest since February
2021.
Is there something more regressive about
the policy effort of the past few months
that you see playing out in a much more
negative way in the months to come?
Yeah, it is clear that tyrants affect
the are very regressive affect the the
lower income um uh individuals or
households uh compared to the higher
income. Uh and we have seen these u uh
this wave of um a splitting consumer uh
let's say in terms of income for a
while. I mean we also have um student
loans that are going to have to be
repaid again. uh so those those um
spendings are going to come down on
discretionary side of the economy. So
yes I mean we are concerned that um this
bifurcation of um the consumer through
income uh levels uh will will put I mean
will help to weaken the consumer even
further. How much do you see some of the
retail sales data that we've been
getting as somewhat clouded Eugeneio
given the fact that inflation has been
present? You have seen a couple of key
goods really see pretty significant
inflationary pops and that's included in
the absolute number that people then say
look it shows the consumer is strong
consumer is robust.
>> Yeah. I mean the biggest issue with
nominal with retail sales is that they
are nominal. Correct. the the the DEA
used to calculate some real retail sales
uh but they don't have enough resources
so they no longer calculate them. Uh so
every time that we see nominal retail
sales we say wait a second yes it was
relatively strong in July but you have
to take into account that most of it is
uh probably price uh increases. Um so
that is a one of the reasons that we say
that the consumer uh consumer demand has
been slowing down. So you have to take
away uh the increases in in prices. We
are seeing some increases in prices. Um
a third of consumption is goods. Uh so
those are the ones that are most
impacted by by tariffs. um and they are
goods that affect the lower end consumer
uh more than the upper um u end
consumer. So um it is concerning. We
don't see a crisis. We don't see
something falling off um right now but
um you know the shock uh to from tires
is going to continue to making roads
into consumer demand.
>> Eugenia, appreciate your time. Eugenia
Alamander of Rema James. The latest on
the consumer on retail earnings that we
got just moments ago from Target. That's
not getting hammered by the way in the
pre-market and a look ahead to what we
could hear from the Federal Reserve.
It's going to dominate the next couple
of days into Jackson Hole.
>> Yeah, that's what I was thinking as
Eugenia was talking. What does the Fed
do with all of this, especially given
the point that you made, which is a
really salient point about how upper end
consumers could keep spending. They keep
kind of patting the numbers. Lower
income consumers struggling. To me, the
target news, the reason why the shares
are down so much, it seems, at least
this is the interpretation of analysts,
is people were hoping for some sort of
outsider to take over, to get a new
approach, not someone who started as an
intern at the company in 2003 and rose
up through the ranks. This is the key
question. How does this company get that
competitive edge back at a time where
competition is so stiff and so dominated
by Walmart and Amazon?
>> Stock is down by 8% in the pre-market so
far. More on that story throughout this
morning. Let's give you an update on
that and a whole lot more with your
Bloomberg brief with Yahara. Hey yhara.
>> Hi John. Target shares as you said are
getting hammered in the pre-market after
the retailer reported earnings and
announced its next CEO. Veteran Michael
Fidelki will take over in February
after, as Lisa said, starting as an
intern at Target in 2003. Performance
improved for the company last quarter,
but it is still looking to regain its
footing. Walmart is expected to report
earnings tomorrow. Meanwhile, the Wall
Street Journal is reporting McDonald's
will cut the cost of its combo meals.
The fast food chain and its US
franchises are reportedly keeping the
price of eight combo meals 15% under the
sum of the individual items. The Journal
says McDonald's will offer a $5
breakfast and $8 Big Mac and McNugget
combo meal later this year. And Japan's
exports fell 2.6% 6% in value in July
from a year earlier, their steepest
decline in more than four years as US
tariffs continue to weigh on trade. The
downturn led by cars, auto parts, and
steel was the biggest since February
2021. Meanwhile, export volumes rose by
1.2% suggesting exporters are continuing
to absorb US tariff costs. That's your
brief. John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yhara in
the next 30 minutes or so. Up next on
the program, shades of stagflation.
>> There are shades of stagflation in the
data right now. I don't think chapo is
going to commit to a rate cut. I think
he's going to just signal the easing
bias. So, we might hang around here.
>> That conversation up next with David Se
of Neora live from New York City this
morning. Good morning. You're watching
Wimber TV.
[Music]
A change at target. That stock is down
in the pre-market by close to 8% so far
in early trading. Brian Cornell stepping
down. Michael Fidela stepping up.
longtime Target executive taking control
of this company
>> at a key point when they have to figure
out how they're going to compete going
forward. After a couple of years of a
slumping earnings, slumping comparable
store sales, they still had a decline in
the recent quarter second quarter uh
sales report, but still not as much not
as much of a decline as in the past. Key
question here is what are they going to
do with inventories? What are they going
to do with tariffs? What are they going
to do with pricing? and how are they
going to invest in some sort of
technological footprint to compete with
delivery behemoths of Amazon and
increasingly Walmart.
>> It's going to be an interesting call
with that company later on this morning.
We're down by 7 or 8% later on this
week. Tomorrow we will hear from
Walmart, that company Lisa just
mentioned. Equities on the S&P 500
shaping up as follows. A run of no gains
on the S&P. A three-day run so far and
could become day four. We're down a
tenth of 1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ
100. Negative by 0.24%. 24%. Under
surveillance this morning, shades of
stagflation.
>> Markets across the board are pricing in
a soft landing and what Governor Gwaler
called good news rate cuts. There are
shades of stagflation in the data right
now. I don't think Chapa is going to
commit to a rate cut. I think he's going
to just signal the easing bias. So, we
might hang around here. I think where
the disappointment will come in is no
commitment, but I'm going to be watching
that framework review.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Investors looking for signs of slowing
economic growth ahead of Fed chair
JPAL's speech from Jackson Hole on
Friday. David Se of Memorial writing,
"While we see both upside and downside
risk to the economy, our base cases
lackluster growth of about 1%." Joining
us now, David himself, David, good
morning.
>> Good morning. What do you think the
emphasis will be on on Friday from this
Fed chair? I think the emphasis is going
to be on keeping options open. So, uh,
certainly the the Fed will continue to
have an easing bias, but I think that
very much unlike last year when Powell
made it clear that that that a cut was
coming in in September 2024. He's going
to keep his options open here. We think
they're going to cut in September, but
uh, you know, a year ago we were talking
about are they going to go 25 or are
they going to go 50. So, it was very
easy for him to signal a cut of some
magnitude and not give up any
optionality. Uh now we think 25 is the
most likely. But if we were to get on
September 5th a very strong jobs number
or on September 11th a very hot CPI,
then I think there is a real risk that
that the Fed continues to hold off.
>> He thinks the labor market is solid. At
least he did. And then we got payrolls.
He anchored that view around one data
point, the unemployment rate. Do you
think he'd still call this labor market
solid?
>> Solid is is a maybe overstating it a
little bit. We've definitely seen a big
uh loss in momentum. Uh now, is it as
bad as that one labor market report, the
August 1 report showed? Probably not. Or
at least there's there's there's a lot
of uncertainty when it when it comes to
that. So, um it was a it was a weak
unemploy it was a weak 4.2, meaning it
it rounded down to 4.2. It only stayed
at 4.2 because a lot of people dropped
out of the labor market. But at the same
time, 4.2 is 4.2. And you don't want to
overstate um or under underappreciate
uh how strong it is. NFP looked pretty
terrible and there there's no real way
to spin the the top number. So we have
three months where it's it's average
only 35k per month and um you know they
have to be a little bit worried about
that. Uh so they don't want to overreact
to one single data point. But I do think
that barring something that is very
strong on September 5th uh they're
probably going to be cutting at the next
meeting. You said there's no way to spin
that and yet we've heard a lot of people
try to spin that. Just to let you know,
a lot of people have come on this show
and they've said actually it's not as
bad as it looks because of the
immigration story, because of the supply
side of the story. How much do you
expect the Fed to address that? You
know, are we going to see a non-farm
payrolls headline number that is going
to be materially lower for the
foreseeable future? Not because the
economy is falling off the cliff, but
because of this low, higher, low fire
type of dynamic.
>> Well, certainly after saying there's no
way to spin it, of course, I I'll I'll
give you all the reasons that that you
could. um you know it's still going to
be a bad number but you know there are a
couple of things. The first thing is
certainly the the the break even
non-farm payrolls rate the the number
that need to be created each month to
keep the unemployment rate steady is
down we think at least 50k uh per month
and and some other estimates say it's
down even more and that's exactly
because fewer people are coming into
this country through immigration and
therefore fewer jobs need to be created
to to absorb all those people. The
second thing um and I think this is also
important is this is actually the third
straight year where private payrolls x
education and health care uh have gone
negative on a 3-month basis. And in 2023
and 2024, this led to uh speculation
that a recession was imminent. And what
happened in both 23 and 24, we saw huge
recoveries in the labor market in the
second half of the year. Now for a third
straight year, we're seeing that pattern
again. And it's not enough to make
anything conclusive at this point, but
it does make you wonder, well, are there
some seasonality issues that have
developed postcoid in the data that
we're just not able to get right. Um,
three data points again not enough to
conclude that, but it certainly is a
risk. And if there is some sort of
seasonality in the summer where that's
not being picked up, then again, it
maybe it wasn't as bad as as it seems.
>> Yeah. And if we rewind to last year,
that was the justification for 100 basis
points of rate cuts that ended up some
people uh really questioning in terms of
just how weak the economy was. You add
to this the one big beautiful bill. You
add to this this feeling that we're
getting from a lot of companies that are
reporting that actually they do have
more confidence about policy. They do
have more confidence to make
acquisitions. What's the risk that
there's more upside that people are
discount not discounting or not
accounting enough
>> there? There there's definite risk here.
Um, and so you know what what you've
heard from from some of the members of
the Fed is well maybe we cut uh in
September, but we don't signal that
we'll cut again in in December. It is
our expectation at NORA that the Fed
will cut in September and December. But
even if they cut in September, it's then
not going to necessarily be a slam dunk
that uh that there'll be a December cut.
Uh you have to look at well do we see
signs of tariff induced inflation
coming? We certainly haven't seen it on
a on a robust basis so far. Do we see
signs that the labor market is is
roaring back in the way it did the last
two years? And do we see an in a pickup
in investment due to uh the accelerated
expensing from the OBBBA or from simply
something totally separate which is that
companies right now want to put a plow a
lot of money into AI uh investment and
that is GDP uh however you however you
cut it.
>> The range of outcomes that you say is
really quite wide. I'm going through
your note right now. We expect a 25
basis point cut the next meeting. We
also see no cut and a 50 basis point cut
as possibilities with no cut more likely
than a 50 basis point cut. Yes. Just how
wide are things right now the range of
outcomes that you foresee and how
different is that to the experience of
the last few years?
>> Yeah. I mean, you know, last year when
we were at Jackson Hole, it was very
clear that the labor market was uh
getting a little bit worse. Maybe it
wasn't getting as much worse as it
looked, but it was getting worse. And
inflation was still high, but it was
unambiguously going in the right
direction, getting lower. So, it was
very easy to tell what the direction of
travel was, even if it wasn't clear how
quickly we were getting there. Now, we
have a a labor market report that looks
a bit like an aberration. We have a lot
of expectations that these tariffs uh
may cause inflation and yet we really
have not seen that in a robust way. And
certainly the the July report um to the
extent it was it was a little bit hot,
it was something that was not related to
tariffs and in many cases isn't going to
feed into core PCE, which is the Fed's
preferred uh metric of inflation. And so
you put that all together and um there's
a lot of new information that we're
going to get from the September 5th and
September 11th labor market and uh
inflation reports that we just don't
have right now. And both of those
reports come before the next Fed
meeting. If Muhammad Alerin was here,
he'd talk about regret minimization. I
always said that these guys are in the
risk management business. Ultimately, if
you're in the risk management business,
what is the prudent thing to do in
September? Some people might say it's
wait, is that not the prudent thing to
do?
>> You know, I I I think that if we didn't
have those two data points, it would be
a very very close call right now. Um, I
still think they would probably cut, but
um, but you know, you could spin it the
other way and say, well, if we are
weakening and we fail to cut um, in
order to start to alleviate that
weakening, maybe that's actually the
bigger mistake. And, you know, when we
look back at the 50 basis point cut from
last September, certainly based on the
data that subsequently came out, it was
unnecessary to do. I I think there
there's no question about that. But do
do I think the Fed regrets having made
that cut? probably not because it seemed
like there was a chance that we were
deteriorating more quickly and so it was
worth putting this in there again from
that riskmanagement perspective lest
there was a uh a bigger downturn coming
that they they hadn't reacted to.
>> It was odd listening to chairman Pal
reflect on those rate cuts because I
think he said something like if anything
we were late.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is an odd way of summing up what
they did last year. Given the fact that
you saw 100 basis point increase in
yield at the long end of the yield
curve, I just am thinking regret
minimization would be a great self-help
book. That would be a great name of a
self-help book. How to understand how to
make decisions minimize regret.
>> Muhammad might write the book.
>> Okay, please do because I actually
>> just for chairman pal because I know how
well those two get on.
>> I think that that would be lovely. I'm
sure that it would be steeped in all
sorts of lovely
>> David Se of Nura. David, thank you.
>> My pleasure. If you really wanted to
upset Shaman Pal, I imagine putting
Muhammad on the board right now would be
one way of doing it, wouldn't it?
>> Well, I would guess that that would be
the case.
>> I haven't seen his name in the mix, but
you know, maybe they can make that
happen.
>> You're trying to put him in the mix.
>> There are 11 candidates. What's another
one?
>> It was his birthday yesterday. So, happy
birthday, Muhammad.
>> Happy birthday.
>> And maybe that's a gift coming to you
from Secretary Besson sometime soon. Got
no idea. Up next, Eric Freezeman of US
Bank, Monica Guerrero of Morgan Stanley,
Erica McLaclin of the Conference Board,
and Greta Pes of WY Rind from New York
City. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
I think markets across the board are
pricing in a soft landing. The market is
taking into account that there is
potential for there to be upside.
>> When you don't have a lot of margin and
there's uncertainty, there's nothing you
can really eat.
>> What you've got is an economy that's
very strong around tech. The big spend
right now is still in technology. So
those stocks are at a premium valuation.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Three days without gains on the S&P 500
about to become day four perhaps. live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning. Good morning to you all. The
second hour of Bloomberg surveillance
stats right now and your scores look
like this. We pulled back slightly in
yesterday's session on the S&P. We're
down again by a tenth of 1%. The
underperformance yesterday on the
NASDAQ. It continues this morning down
by 0.2%
on the NASDAQ. Some good news may be
stabilizing for Nvidia. If you ask
people this morning what happened
yesterday, I tell you what, there's no
consensus whatsoever on what happened
yesterday. It's the summer, thin
trading, things happen.
>> People still blame Citron, for example,
coming out with a report about Palunteer
valuation versus open AI. Some people
pointed to other reports questioning
just how much uh companies are profiting
from their AI investments. Nonetheless,
the true test, as you said, is do people
buy today? Do people see this as a
buyable dip after this being the first
decline of more than a percent going
back to August 1st? To me, that really
highlights just how some knowledge and
how much of a one-way train up this is
and how much people are looking for
excuses to shake it up in any which way.
>> We'll go to another excuse later on in
the hour. We'll talk about an MIT report
on AI. Saw that too.
>> I'm excited about that actually.
>> Yeah, we'll get into that in about 30
minutes time. So, look out for that
conversation. Also going to get into
this. Target is down by about 8% in the
pre-market. That's a name to watch. A
management change at one of the biggest
retailers in this country.
>> Yeah, they shifted the chief operating
officer, Michael Fideli. He has been
named the next CEO. This has been the
big mystery. Who will target uh pick to
be their succeeding leader. His
appointment will take effect on February
1st. This is somebody who grew up at the
company, has been at the company since
2003 when he started as an intern. And
he said that recent efforts to turn
around some of Target's uh fate have
been paying off, including this
initiative, which is dubbed Fun 101,
which seeks to capitalize on the latest
trends for products including sporting
goods and electronics. cannot think of
anything more than more corporate than
saying fun 101. Here is a flowchart of
fun.
>> Talk about fun at corporate America. It
never is.
>> Problem,
>> but it's usually someone who's sort of
over excited about their initiative
internally.
>> Well, you Yeah. When you have
>> eye rolls around the room,
>> when you have to have a flowchart
talking about the uh different parts of
fun and what makes this ball fun, you're
sort of taking the fun. You get these
elbows sort of like you know indulge
them
>> like just and then you're like ah summer
picnic excited for that Sunday with
everyone else.
>> You're on a roll company.
>> Nonetheless, look
>> to see people I work with.
>> I'm going to save you because ultimately
it sounds like you're kind of hating on
some of these meetings that we have
which I personally love. I think that
the real question here is how are they
going to compete in a highly competitive
landscape and how do they deal I'm
talking about Target now, not the
meetings that you're going to. And how
does Target really look ahead to uh
tariffs, to pricing pressures globally,
to a consumer landscape that is somewhat
questionable right now? How do they
manage that after all their inventory
problems and as they have flowcharts
that are about Fun 101?
>> When your company starts talking about
fun run equities right now in the S&P
500 negative by about a tenth of 1%.
Coming up on this program, Eric
Freriedman of US Bank following big
tech's second worst day since April.
Monica Aguero of Morgan Stanley as the
White House is fasttracking their next
Fed pick and Erin McLolin of the
Conference Board with retail earnings
very much in focus. We begin this hour
with stocks falling led by some of the
year's biggest winners. Eric Freriedman
of US Bank writing, "As long as capex
continues and technology diffusion
occurs at a measured pace, we see
further upside but would not mind a
pause that refreshes." Eric joins us now
for more. Eric, welcome to the program,
sir. Last time we spoke a little more
than a month ago, around a month ago, I
remember you were maintaining that
overweight riskon posture. Eric, are you
maintaining that posture going through
summer?
>> Yeah, Jonathan, we are great to see you
as always. I think that our viewpoint is
certainly trees don't grow to the sky
and I think a level of skepticism around
uh you know leads a great point made
about the return on capital within AI
that for us is really the big factor. We
think that with respect to technology,
we are seeing that diffusion pick up. In
other words, we're seeing more access to
AI technologies across a broader
plethora of companies, which is a good
thing. At the same time, though,
companies have to make money. This is
about return of shareholder capital. And
so, you can't just have a plan where you
want to spend a bunch of money on AI.
There needs to be some evidence, if you
will, of return. So, we think that capex
is a good guide. That's not the only
guide, but we're starting to see more
companies talk about those returns on
their capital deployed, which for us is
still a positive. So again, we're still
risk. We think consumers hang in there.
We think capex continues, but again, we
would not be surprised to see a bit of a
pullback, which we'd likely be buyers
of, especially as we get deeper into the
doldrums, if you will, pre-LOR day.
>> So, you've got a pro-risk bias quite
clearly, and you've had that every time
we've spoken over the last several
times. What would begin to constrain
that pro- risk bias for you, Eric? What
could you point to specifically?
>> I think two things. Number one would be
Jonathan the consumer rolls over which
we can't we can't discount. We like to
say that we have a working thesis
mentality about consumers. A lot of
concern about did we see a huge pull
forward in demand uh around the
liberation day announcement in the in
the weeks shortly thereafter and will
that return? In other words, will that
demand actually resurface? We have a
couple of data points we can we can look
at. Number one is back to school sales
and then number two is what we're
hearing about about the holiday shopping
season. So we'll have some good
evidence. Right now our highfrequency
data checks, things like TSA data,
things like open table bookings are
still very robust. So consumers are not
rolling over. Uh the second area that
where we could be wrong would be
companies actually don't uh use this
opportunity with a bit more tariff
clarity to hire people and and again we
do think the labor market softness it's
been very well documented. That for us
is a red flag. So those two elements,
consumers pulling back, but then also
the notion of will will businesses
actually come back to hire folks now
that we have a little more tariff
clarity. That for us would be a bit of
the the concerning points that would
take that glass half full thesis uh to
task relative to where we are right now.
>> It seems like the potential for
disappointment is in the 493 based on
what you just said, not necessarily the
magnificent 7. You never said in that
entire risk uh paradigm the idea that
suddenly we're in a bubble in tech
valuations and that it would crash as
people lost faith in just how much
artificial intelligence could actually
do. Why is that not necessarily a
concern for you in the same way that
just sort of the more humdrum aspects of
just a slowing consumer uh would be?
>> Yeah, I think that's a very thoughtful
challenge, Lisa. I mean, if you look at
at the the broader marketplace right now
and you look what's really developing
from a, you know, a core spend
standpoint, we need to see a a
development beyond, you know, AI and
cyber spend. That's something that is a
very played out thesis. Again, we're
wary of being involved for too long. I
think that that's something that that
gives us again some level of skepticism
about the rest of the of the market's
participation. One thing that I want to
really emphasize that I think is
probably undercovered is is that cash
flows are actually becoming more
valuable. If anything, when we look at
our discounted cash flow models when
we're evaluating the other 493 companies
out there, you know, there's the
expectation that that Fed funds goes
down to 3% by the end of calendar year
2026. That's a pretty significant
development. Again, that's not
necessarily new news, if you will. I
mean, the forward curve has that pretty
well priced in. But when we're
discounting cash flows, we're using a
much lower interest rate, which makes
those cash flows more valuable. So if
anything, you know, we think that that
should the Fed continue with a more
measured gradual reduction for a
prolonged period of time, again, the
move from 4.33 to 3% on a discount rate,
that has material impacts on stock
valuation. So I think if anything, Lisa,
what would be another challenge, if you
will, would be if the Fed decides to be
more incremental, you know, if the yield
curve doesn't have that twist shape and
and in fact the front of the curve
remains more elevated. That would make
that 493 less valuable because we think
that that will likely be the outcome.
The Fed will be measured, but still
bring front rates down. That makes the
the other 493 uh more attractive even
with more prosaic sales growth. This is
a reason why so many people are thinking
that 10:00 a.m. on Friday Eastern time
is going to be so pivotal for uh equity
and bond markets. Given the fact that
potentially uh Fed Chair J Pal could
come out and say in September we're
going to cut or in September we're not
going to cut. He's not going to say
either of those things. What are you
actually going to hear that will give
you a sense of whether this market has
baked in too many rate cuts or has
gotten a little bit overly excited about
the pace of the easing cycle that's
ahead?
I think it is very much a horse race,
Lisa, about which risk is the Fed more
focused on again the labor market is
softening. That's that is something that
we think has been evidenced for a couple
of months, a couple of quarters versus
what about this inflation issue. Is in
fact inflation going to be more
ephemeral in nature. So I do think that
the labor market uh you know sort of
having the the lead if you will right
now versus a little bit of a viewpoint
that perhaps the Fed is rounding down
with its inflation expectations again.
The Fed has had many opportunities to
come off that 2% long-term inflation
target and they haven't budged. We do
think that the Fed is actually rounding
down, if you will, saying, "Hey, if we
see something in the mid twos, that's
probably okay to start a or at least to
continue the rate cutting cycle." But
again, I I think that the terminal rate
at least probably the last thing I'd say
is of the utmost important to us. Again,
while we are very focused on where the
front end of the curve may be in 2026,
we also care a lot about how long it'll
actually be there. The Fed has been very
stealthily increasing their terminal
level of Fed funds. That has material
implications for equity investors like
us. If we're discounting again a higher
terminal rate, that's not a good thing.
So, we think that two things are really
important. Number one, how long will we
actually be at that terminal rate? And
number two, which of those two risks is
the Fed more focused on? We think that
right now the labor market softness is
getting a little more attention from the
Fed versus inflation which has been
again well in their their sights for
some time.
>> Erin, let's focus on inflation. Let's
just finish there. We spoke to Jim Karen
and Morgan Stanley just yesterday. Now,
as I asked this question, I do
understand that stocks are still close
to alltime highs and we're trading at a
pretty elevated forward multiple. But
Jim had this to say. Inflation is acting
like a guard dog keeping unrestrained
bullish sentiment at bay. But what if
the dog doesn't bark? then markets might
be under risk. Eric, for a man with a
pro-risk appetite, pro- risk bias, do
you have some sympathy with those lines
coming from Jim Karen and Morgan
Stanley?
>> Oh, absolutely. I think one great
imagery from from Mr. Karen in terms of
that that visual. But, you know, I think
that the inflation issue is is a
material risk and and again, we don't
want to just whistle past this idea that
that perhaps inflation is going to have
some normalization effect just because
that's what markets currently expect.
You if you look at the uh the great
reporting that your team has done, you
know, companies right now are still
eating inflationary pressures, not just
on the good side, but also on the
services side as well. That may that may
not persist. we could see an about face
where companies say, "Hey, you know
what? I'm in a thin margin business and
other companies are also passing through
inflationary risk. So, we'll do the same
thing." If that actually occurs,
Jonathan, and that that that bark may be
a lot louder than we think it will.
Again, we do expect again, even just
looking at differentials, look at at at
Ford estimates for inflation in the US
at like, you know, 2 and a half to 3%
versus Europe and in EM at sub 2% out
another, you know, 12 18 months. That's
a differential that this administration
as well as companies can't maintain
indefinitely. Something has to give.
Again, we do think that inflation will
bend but not break. and we're a little
more I think optimistic about inflation
estimates coming down but we certainly
have to respect the case if that of
course is is wrong.
>> Eric, thank you sir. Appreciate your
time as always. Eric Freriedman there of
US Bank. Things are pretty finely
balanced going through Q3 into Q4.
>> Yeah. Does the dog bark or bite? Does
the dog not bite or bark? I'm sure I'll
get it right. So
>> the sand worms come up from below the
sand
>> with the shifting sands and the dog.
>> If you're just tuning in, you got no
idea what we're talking about. Don't
worry about it. Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning. It's
true. Let's get to your Bloomberg brief
with Yahira. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi John. We are seeing Target shares
plunging in the pre-market down nearly
10% after the retailer named COO Michael
Fideli as its next CEO. Sticking with a
company veteran instead of bringing in
fresh leadership as Wall Street had
hoped. Target's results showed it
continued to struggle in the second
quarter with contractions in both
revenue and comparable store sales.
Meanwhile, sources telling Reuters that
US Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik is
looking into government equity stakes in
Intel as well as other chip companies.
The stakes will be in exchange for
grants under the chips act. That piece
of legislation was signed into law under
the Biden administration and meant to
boost domestic factory building for
semiconductors.
And US and NATO officials are set to
meet today in Washington to discuss
security guarantees for Ukraine.
European officials working on a plan to
send French and British troops into
Ukraine as part of a peace agreement
with Russia. President Trump saying the
US would not put American troops on the
ground, but could offer air support.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John Yhara,
thank you. More from Yihara in about 30
minutes time. Up next on the program,
fasttracking the latest Fed pick.
>> The president uh has great sway with
leader Thun. I think that he would like
to see uh Steven, who I I've known for a
long time, get on there as soon as
possible. So, I'm I'm hopeful about the
September meeting.
>> That conversation up next with Monica
Aguero of Morgan Stanley live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Equities on the S&P 500 pulling back by
just a tenth of 1% on the S&P. On the
Nasdaq right now, we're shaping up as
follows. On the NASDAQ 100, a little bit
of underperformance once again this
morning. In the bond market, we can turn
to fixed income. Bond yields lower by a
single basis point. The 10 year 42965.
The line of the week on the bond market
pre-misra JP Morgan sell America or the
deficit that's very April look at the
tariff revenues that are offsetting the
one big beautiful bill a lot of people
in fixed income very much focused on
just that
>> it was so April to worry about duration
now Pria Misra and others saying
actually maybe this is a great
opportunity to buy duration given the
fact that those offsets are material
that said what it highlights to me is
just how volatile the 10-year Treasury
yield has been and what to suggest in
terms of its risk mitigating factors
going forward.
>> The 10year just below just sub 430 42984
and Sylvanas this morning fasttracking
the latest Fed pick. The president and I
are both concerned about the foundations
of the Fed. How did this happen and why
did it happen and you know how did the
leadership let it happen? The president
uh has great sway with leader Thun. I
think that he would like to see uh
Steven, who I I've known for a long
time, get on there as soon as possible.
So, I'm I'm hopeful about the September
meeting. So, here's the latest this
morning. Politico reporting the White
House is working through August recess
to help fasttrack Steven Myron's
confirmation to the Federal Reserve
ahead of the September meeting. Joining
us now to discuss is Monica of Morgan
Stanley. Monica, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> It's good to see you. I'm sure you saw
the political story. How quickly do you
think we can get this done? I think you
can get it done in early September,
especially if leadership prioritizes it.
It's if we're thinking about the broader
legislative agenda, you know, last time
I was on I said, you know, maybe after,
right? Maybe after we get through some
appropriations bills, but now that it's
the president's priority, the discussion
does change and we've seen that it
materially alters the actual legislative
calendar.
>> How do you and the team think the
discussion changes on the FOMC with
Steven Meyer joining the board?
>> I know it doesn't change September. I
think that's the important thing that
markets are looking at. You know, if
we're going to get a cut, we're going to
get a cut. And that doesn't, you know,
alter Powell's, you know, uh, uh,
message to to the markets. I think it's
a an after the-act issue, right? When
you're thinking about the rest of the
year, how how deep do they go, right?
And then it becomes more of a
consideration. One thing that you're so
good at given all of your experience in
Washington DC is understanding the cash
flows of the government and how much 25
basis point rate cut actually will ease
some of the current liquidity
constraints that we've been talking
about. We're also potentially going to
be dealing with another government
shutdown. Very excited for that. How
much are you actually seeing a 25 basis
point rate cut as materially improving
the liquidity position? Um right now we
think that it's maybe going to move
things marginally. One of the things
that we're talking about at length is
that question, right? How how much when
you have a low reverse refill position
as well as a draining TGA, if you're
going to refill that TGA, what it means,
that's the TRA Treasury general account.
That means you're essentially taking
liquidity out of the financial system.
25 basis points doesn't change a lot
there from our perspective, especially
if you do have a shutdown in October,
which we do think is a high probability.
>> So, this really raises a question. Is
that part of the calculation for why the
administration could be pushing for such
rapid rate cuts? I mean, can you give us
a sense of what the motivation is? Is it
that they expect to see some sort of
deterioration in the economy? Is it just
to turbocharge the economy heading into
midterm elections? Or is it because
there are some liquidity constraints
coming down the pike that they're
worried about? So, one of the things
that is, I think, confusing for, you
know, our clients is that you hear, you
know, the president being upset about
weak labor, you know, and jobs numbers.
And then at the same time, right, he
wants to have this lower tenure, so he
wants a stronger labor market and a
lower tenure. And those two things can
sometimes be in conflict, right? Not
always, but they they tend to be. So,
it's really like what is the motivating
factor here? I think from day one, Trump
has wanted a lower tenure rate. This has
been a long-term goal. I think that it
is just a you know commitment to the
broader campaign promise that they would
bring that down. Now from Vesson's lens
I think you get into the technicals
right I think you get into concerns
around the financial industry and the
liquidity in the market.
>> I think we've also got to get a deeper
understanding of just what the
relationship is right now between the
front end and the longer end of the
curve because the president might find
out pretty quickly that you can cut
rates at the front end and the long end
still stays elevated. The history book
is pretty fresh from September of last
year when we saw just that. So it raises
a question of what's the reaction
function to a potentially Trump
influenced Fed to cutting rates at the
front end and seeing that selloff at the
long end.
>> I can understand some of the pressure to
reduce interest rates. If the Fed
believes the neutral is somewhere around
three and they're well north of four,
then they've got space to cut interest
rates if you think they should. But
let's run with that. Where it could get
trickier is that they see pressure to
start buying bonds. Do you foresee that
pressure coming around the corner down
in Washington DC sometime soon?
>> If you're thinking about, you know, the
that type of pressure in the near term
with the, you know, the OBVA and all of
that, when you're thinking about the
actual spending, right, that is
definitely on the table. But if we're
looking to just we're staying in this
window, right? If we're thinking about a
twomonth window, there is a significant
amount of potential liquidity crunch
there, especially if you shut down the
government and then they're not
spending, right? And then and they are
just in a sell mode. You'd have to
believe that the average maturity that's
going to be issued from the Treasury is
going to get shorter, not longer. When
Priya was on the program just yesterday,
she was talking about where the bulk of
demand is right now in fixed income, and
she said it's in the belly of the curb.
I think the average maturity at the
moment from Treasury is something like
for everything outstanding is something
like six years. 7 72 months. You'd have
to think that might even get shorter. At
a time when we just spent like 5 years
talking about extending gear, the
incoming Treasury Secretary at the time
was talking about extending gear. And
you can sense that his thoughts on the
matter have evolved as well since he's
been in the seat.
>> Yeah. Well, that he criticized uh we we
saw with Janet Yellen him saying this
was basically criminal. Now they're sort
of doubling down on this. I mean, is
this the path forward that you're just
going to see shorter and shorter
maturities being sold that we're going
to be financing the US government
government mostly in T bills in say a
year's time to try to avoid that kind of
walk-in?
>> Well, what's interesting is that if you
actually take that in tandem with the
move um from a policy lens on stable
cocoin, I know I'm sort of throwing out,
you know, left field here. You know,
that te demand is going to go up. So I
think that not just from the government,
you know, backend mechanics from the Fed
and the Treasury, but also from this
growing demand, there's going to be
significantly more T bill issuance.
>> Monica Guerrero of Morgan Stanley.
Monica, appreciate your time. I think a
lot of people are focused on very much
the same thing. All the complaining
about not extending duration at Treasury
and here we are talking about spending
more and issuing more tea bills. I think
that you were the one to ask him about
this and I know that you've asked him
about this several times. You know, he
was pretty uh aggressive going against
Janet Yellen about this shift and he
said, "We'll market time it. If it's an
appropriate time, we'll get in and it
implies that the path of travel is to a
much lower neutral rate." This is
actually why I'm interested to hear what
they say at Jackson Hole. Are there
challenges to this idea that neutral is
at 3% or even lower than that? Is there
a sense that it could be closer to 4%
and how much does that shift the
government's ability to manufacture
lower yields by just adjusting some of
the maturities? Because if rates don't
really ever go down substantially at the
front end, well, where are you going to
be?
>> Slightly in the weeds, but I'm sure
you'll appreciate this. There is a lot
of daylight between the average maturity
out there at the moment and the weighted
average maturity of the treasuries that
are held over at the Federal Reserve.
And a question I've asked is whether you
start to sort of look at tightening that
up just a little bit. Close that
daylight between the two. Not QE, but
just more active management of the
average maturity on the Fed's balance
sheet. I wonder if that's the direction
we might go in.
>> We've heard proposals about that with
respect to some of the candidates to be
on the Fed and potentially with
mortgages, how they could play more in
the mortgage space to help drive down
some of the rates there. Look, there are
a lot of ways for them to be creative.
And I'm going to get in the weeds in the
sand pit with the worms on
>> What are the sand worms?
>> I I'm not going there, but I I haven't
even watched Dune. I'm just making up
these things. I'm looking up what
Arachus was, and I'm getting very into
that.
>> Oh, we've talked about this for 90
minutes, and you haven't even watched
the movie.
>> Correct.
>> Okay, fantastic.
>> And you have? Do you know what it's
about?
>> Nope. I've watched both, too.
>> Okay, there you go.
>> Up next, Eron McLolin at the conference
board with retail earnings in focus.
Plus Danny Burker with your morning
movers. Taking a look at Hertz.
[Music]
Hi from New York City. Welcome to the
program. Europ and B is about 2 hours
away. Your equity market's negative
by.15% on the S&P 500. On the NASDAQ,
the underperformance continues. We're
down by 0.23.
Let's get you some morning movers and
cross over to Danny Burgerer for more.
Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. a decent chunk of retailer
earnings this morning. Target among
them, it was another quarter of a week
sales figure and a con confirmation of
their view going forward of just
doubledigit declines for sales. And with
that underscoring the urgency of their
desire to turn things around was the
announcement that their COO would become
the new CEO, saying in the statement
that it is with urgency that he will try
to build momentum for this company.
Shares down 10 and a half%. Also a tough
set of earnings for Estee Lauder. Those
shares down about 7 and a3%. Their
outlook disappointed. They also said
that they see an $und00 million charge
because of tariffs and that they will
work to mitigate any of the tariff
exposure. But still those shares
sinking. Now to the upside this morning.
Hertz is making a move in a big way.
Those shares up 10%. The company
announcing just moments ago that they
will be working with Amazon Autos and
selling used cars on the platform.
They're going to start with a launch in
four cities, Dallas, Houston, LA, and
Seattle. Cities in those places, and
then they're going to expand to 45. So,
enthusiasm there, though, shares up more
than 11 and a3%. John
>> Danny, thank you. More from Danny in the
next hour. More earnings for you. This
time from TJX. Nothing earthshattering
in this one. The outlook for full year
sales growth of 3%. They had seen two to
three. The estimate was 2.87. The stock
is higher by 3%.
>> Yeah, a raise and a beat. I mean, that's
sort of the beat and a raise as you've
been saying. I mean, they're raising
their fullear guidance for both pre-tax
profit margin as well as earnings per
share. That's fascinating to me. The
idea of pre-tax profit margin increasing
at a time where we keep talking about
companies eating some of the tariff
costs. Very curious to see exactly why
that is. Also seeing fullear comp sales
up 3%, they had previously seen it
between 2 and 3%. And the estimate was
for something less than that. Key
questions will be how are they managing
their inventory and is this a contrarian
sign for the consumer given the fact
that it tends to be a more
discounttoriented store. That is
something that we keep watching to
understand how the lower income and
middle inome consumers are handling
prices that are increasing and real
questions about how sentiment has been
fairing.
>> The squeeze at the bottom continues. I
mentioned this note from Bank of America
from the BFA Institute. the difference
in wage growth between higher and lower
income households, the largest since
February 2021. We've talked about the K
the K-shaped economy repeatedly speaks
to that once again.
>> You once said, is it a good thing when
Walmart outperforms or a bad thing? It
used to be a bad thing for the economy
because it was considered the trade
down. Now the question is who are the
bellweathers that indicate that the more
business they do, the worse off people
are feeling and the more they're looking
for discounts. And that's actually going
to be very much what we're looking for
in the commentary from TJ Maxx. We've
heard really conflicting messages from
companies in corporate America across
the spectrum. And how much does it have
to do with that K-shaped economy?
>> If you're bearish, it's bad if it's bad,
and it's bad if it's good. That's the
cheat guide for Walmart tomorrow.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you for Sam Row for that one.
That's always the way, isn't it?
>> Well, you know, my favorite actually
Howard Marks is going to be coming up,
and he said that the market is a
constant battle between optimists and
pessimists. And you know, some people
try to paint me as the pessimist with a
pitchfork, but I will just say the
contrarian view tends to be an
interesting one to me.
>> Do they try and paint you as that or are
you quite proud of being that?
>> The American Gothic on the sand dune
>> with a sand.
>> I had a message from you just yesterday
referring to yourself as the bear with
the pitchfork.
>> Okay, look, let's just be honest, okay?
Right now, that is the contrarian view
because everyone is just so bowled up
that if you are the bear with a
pitchfork, you are definitely on the
other side. Howard Marks joining us in
about an hour from now. So look out for
that conversation. Legendary investor on
this program in the next hour. On our
radio this morning, some pinning a major
sell-off in big tech on a report from
MIT that the AI boom may be overhyped.
Researchers saying 95% of organizations
are getting zero return for massive AI
spending.
>> Okay, pause. First of all, anyone saying
that this report out of MIT is the
reason for the air pocket in tech stocks
is really looking for reasons for the
air pocket in tech stocks because this
is something that a lot of people have
been talking about, including Sam Alman
of OpenAI who said there's going to be a
lot of money lost. Probably some of
these investments are overexuberant, but
this is the path of travel when you have
new technology. There was a story a week
ago in the New York Times about how
eight out of 10 companies say that
they're not getting any practical
returns from their investment yet in
artificial intelligence. So here's the
question. How do you deal with the fact
that this is a revolutionary change and
you are going to need to be part of it
but it is not going to be an efficient
pathway there because people don't even
know how to use these tools yet and that
is going to be the conundrum for a lot
of these companies.
>> It's mid August. You know how this
works. Blindfolds and throwing darts
>> whenever anything happens.
>> Yeah. Exactly. So
>> it's the last 24 hours.
>> MIT report, Palunteer and Open AI and
the question about what happened from
Citron. What else did people say?
>> Meta spending Jackson Hole Friday.
Chairman Powell Nvidia earnings next
week.
>> What I ate for breakfast.
>> There you go. The sand worms.
>> All right, we got to stop. I got to
watch this movie. This is absolutely
dreadful.
>> Keep going back to that. All right. The
White House looking to fast track
approval of Federal Reserve Board pick
Steven Myron. Politico reporting the
administration is working to shore up
support with members of the Senate
Banking Committee. They're still pushing
to get this done for the September
meeting.
>> And this means that if they do, uh,
Myron will be in there for just a couple
months because his term would then be up
given that he is replacing the open
seat. It is up in January. Question is,
what would he push for? How much is this
the path of travel? And are they going
to try to push for other openings?
because they're trying to go
aggressively after some other Fed
members as well with Lisa Cook coming
under fire for other reasons. Pam Bondi
going after her. A real question of how
they're trying to reshape the Fed and
how the Fed responds.
>> I think Bill Bill Pulsey trying to get
Pam Bondi to go after her. Whether that
happens or not, I've got no idea.
>> I mean, some of these allegations
though, we're talking about parsing the
fine print of mortgages. Like really?
>> I won't get into the allegations, but I
will get into the fact that the Federal
Reserve could be completely reshaped by
this administration over the next 12
months or so. And a lot of that's going
to depend on what Chairman Pal chooses
to do once his term expires. Will he
vacate his seat or not? And we know
based on conversations that this is
something that's really irking the White
House because they want a plan and Chair
Pal has given nothing away going into
26.
>> Maybe we will find out at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern time on Friday when we get that
speech from Fed Chair.
>> Oh, you think it might be a, you know,
after this and someone else can take
control of things. Honestly, it might be
a good forum to do that if he wants to,
but ultimately I'm not expecting much.
>> He's got a bit more time, but you'll be
there and I'm looking forward to your
coverage alongside TK. Excited for that.
>> Sandworms.
>> President Trump hosting the CEOs of the
world's two biggest mining companies at
the White House, the heads of Riointo
and BHP discussing a major project in
Arizona that they say could supply the
US with a quarter of its copper demand
for decades to come. I am so pleased to
see this conversation taking place at
the White House because we've been
talking about on this program for ages.
>> Yeah. Resolution Copper over in Arizona.
How many years has this been in pro in
process?
>> Years. Decades.
>> Yeah. Decades. And it's been uh caught
up in the courts with environmental
concerns, etc. I was looking at the
details of what they actually have to
do. And it looks like the copper uh
stores in the United States that were
easier to access have all been used up,
right? So, they were the closest ones to
the surface. This is so deep in the
earth that you get close to the core and
it's very hot. So you have all sorts of
other constraints that make it
expensive. You add regulatory and
environmental appeals and oh my
goodness, how does this project get
done? But it shows the importance of
this to the president and it'll be
really interesting to see how quickly
they can get this
>> 7,000 ft I believe beneath the earth
surface. Can you imagine the the
mechanics of that really are
fascinating.
>> I've talked to Riotinto about it many
times and obviously they've been
lobbying the White House to do something
about this. The previous administration
didn't make it happen and I think most
people are hopeful that it will this
time around. This is the problem with
the tariffs. Look, if you want to do
something about copper, it's about
regulations at home. It's not about
tariffs. There are people that want to
build these mines right now. They want
to explore them. The deposits there.
What's holding us back here is not
tariffs. It's not imported copper.
What's held us back is red tape and
regulation and the courts for the last
decade or so.
>> And how do you create self-sufficiency
on a mismatched timeline? because the
tariffs can come on now, but it's going
to take some time to get this project
really expedited.
>> We've talked too much. Let's turn to
retail. I've talked too much. Target
shares falling after reporting earnings
and announcing its next CEO, longtime
executive Michael Fideli is going to be
taking over. Jen Pachis of Bloomberg
Intelligence joins us now for more. Jen,
welcome to the show. I think we've got
to start with the seauite change. What
is behind the change and what's at the
top of the to-do list for the new CEO?
>> Uh, good morning and thanks for having
me. Um when we look at the CEO change
really um I think that there was uh
investor appetite for sure in having a
CEO change. You know Brian Cornell's
been at the helm for 11 years. Um when
he first came in it was a visionary
target took a whole new growth uh path
under his under his leadership and
stewardship. Um, but I think this the
the change announced this morning with
Michael Fidelica coming in uh from CEO
COO up to the CEO role sort of implies
that there's likely to be a continuation
of the existing strategy and that that
may be what's part of contributing to
the slide in the stock this morning. Um,
I think there may have been expectations
that um you need someone with um an
external vision or with a a different
vision um to really kind of write the
ship the target is. There's something
Lisa talked about, Jen, as the numbers
were dropping and we saw the decision
cross as well that maybe that was the
disappointment. Jen, what have they been
struggling to do? And is this down to
the changes we've seen, the competitive
effort that's come from elsewhere, from
the likes of Walmart? Well, I think a
lot of this started with um with coming
out of the pandemic and with the
consumer shift to more essentials in a
in a in a period of very high inflation,
especially for food, where people were
making decisions about how they were
spending their money. Target is
overindexed in discretionary spending
categories. So, they're famous for their
fashion, for their home decor, you know,
for baby and things like that. And as
people moved towards more essentials, um
that really left a gap um for for Target
where they had to try to figure out what
they were going to do. The company's
done a very good job in terms of
continuing to keep their private label
selection fresh and and and and that
sort of thing, but the consumer just
hasn't followed track. And when you
layer in on top of that some of the
corporate decisions that have not
resonated with their core base like with
um DEI initiatives and things like that,
it's just been a rough time for Target
lately.
>> They've had a really difficult time of
it. Jen, thank you. Jen Bart is there of
Bloomberg with the latest. I want to
stick on the consumer. We want to. Eron
McLolin of the conference board writing
this. Consumer confidence has stabilized
since May, but tariffs remain top of
mind with concerns that they would lead
to higher prices. Erin joins us now for
more. Erin, good morning.
>> Good morning. Is there some evidence
that maybe these companies aren't able
to pass on these higher prices because
consumers right now just don't feel
good?
>> Well, that's a great question. Consumers
are definitely burnt out still. They
have, you know, post PSTd um from the
COVID uh era, but we think that
companies will probably have no choice
but to pass them on. We're looking at
the import index which is monitoring the
prices that are paid um when imports
come into the ports. They're not going
down. So these goods are not being paid
for by the exporters by companies in
other countries. And so it is a matter
of time before the price hikes really do
reach consumers. But they will get
there. Consumer confidence has been
something of a roller coaster this year.
It seems like we just are seeing the ups
and downs of the headlines and how they
filter in. How do you get some sort of
compass for what the lasting sentiment
hit could be when you juggle both the
potential inflationary impacts of
tariffs with a labor market that isn't
great, but it's not terrible, right? I
think it really will be down to how
consumers feel when they buy
nondiscretionary goods on a regular
basis. Obviously, there has been a
little bit of a roller coaster, but
consumers are often reacting to the news
in addition to reacting to what they're
seeing at the grocery store and at other
stores. So, it even though there has
been a little bit of roller coaster, it
is within about the same range. It's
still, you know, not as low as it was in
April, you know, on the liberation day
announcements, but it is up from what it
was in April. One thing that you do a
great job of is look at the confidence
that people have that they'll be getting
jobs or that they'll be able to retain
their jobs. And does anything that
you're seeing in those surveys reflect
the negativity that a lot of people saw
in non-farm payrolls and some of the
revisions that really spooked this
market in a significant way at the start
of this month. We are not seeing huge
negativity. Obviously unemployment is
still at a very very low rate. Um most
folks that are taking the survey, they
might say one month to another that um
it's a little bit more challenging, but
that there's less jobs out there, but
the it hasn't seemed to have a huge
impact on overall consumer sentiment
yet.
>> What's the spread like between
Republicans and Democrats? And how do
you filter some of that? Because you,
Mitch, you Mitch is nuts. When I looked
at that at the end of last week, the
spread was like this wide. Ask a
Democrat how the economy is right now.
They're in depression. Ask a Republican,
best economy ever. How do you filter
that out?
>> We um don't necessarily filter it out
per se. In our index, it's interesting
to see that the movement is about the
same from month to month. So, Democrats
definitely feel more negative and feel
are saying that they feel the impact
more than Republicans. And then we also
look at independents as well. And so
they are sort of moving at about the
same and there isn't as as wide a gap as
one might think.
>> Some of these surveys, not yours, this
one survey, you Mitch, that right now is
a political poll. That is not a consumer
confidence survey for the economy. At
least in my opinion, and I think for
Wall Street, too, that's got to be the
way a lot of people have started to look
at that survey coming out of Michigan.
>> Yeah. Although, what did Michael Jordan
say? Republicans buy sneakers too.
Democrats buy sneakers too as well. So,
how much does this really translate into
reality or how much can we actually look
at any of these surveys and just say
some are more meaningful maybe than
others?
>> We like yours. The labor differential.
>> The labor differential is super useful,
I think. Totally. Super super useful.
Erin, it's good to see you. Thank you.
Thanks for being here. Eron McLolin
there at the conference board. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere
with your Bloomberg brief. Here is
Yahira. Hey yra.
>> Hi, John. We start with TJ Maxx. And it
is a different story than Target. Shares
are trading higher 3.6% 6% after
reporting a beat on Q2 results. The
discount retailer is raising its fullear
guidance for both pre-tax profit margin
as well as earnings per share. The CEO
saying transactions were up at every
division and saw strong demand at each
domestic and international business.
Meanwhile, Trump ally Bill Plute, who is
director of the Federal Housing Finance
Agency, has called on Attorney General
Pam Bondi to investigate Fed Governor
Lisa Cook. Plute alleges Cook quote
falsified bank documents and property
records to acquire more favorable loan
terms, potentially committing mortgage
fraud. Cook did not respond to requests
for comment from Bloomberg. And a
six-seater variant of Tesla's Model Y
will not be coming to the US market this
year. According to a post on X from Elon
Musk, US production of the vehicle will
not begin until the end of next year at
the earliest or quote not ever. citing
self-driving developments here in the
US. The vehicle was recently launched in
China. That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour. Up next on the program,
comfortable with the status quo.
>> China is the right now the biggest
revenue line in the tariff income. So,
uh, you know, if it's not broke, don't
fix it. They have started shipping the
rare earth magnets, which we agreed to.
Right now, the status quo is working
pretty well. Up next on the program,
we'll catch up with the former Biden
economic adviser Greta P. She joins us
next from New York. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Equities pulling back by 210 of 1%. The
latest from TJX and the retailers in
America. 3Q off to a strong start.
Off-pric retailers are going to do okay
in this environment. How many times have
you heard that line over the past few
months?
>> Is that a good sign or a bad sign for
the US economy given the fact that
spending should be a positive sign? And
yet, if people are looking for
discounts, does that mean that people
are trading down and concerned about
what's to come?
>> Beat Rays and a strong guide from that
company, stocks are doing just okay.
Under Savannah this morning, comfortable
with the status quo.
>> China is the right now the biggest
revenue line in the tariff income. So,
uh, you know, if it's not broke, don't
fix it. We have had very good talks with
China. I imagine we'll be seeing them
again before November. They have started
shipping the rare earth magnets, which
we agreed to. Right now, the status quo
is working pretty well. So, here's the
latest this morning. The Treasury
Secretary Scott Besson saying the US is
content with its current trade status
with China. The sides now have until
November to strike a new deal. The
former Biden trade adviser Greta Page
writing the following. Negotiations will
continue to implement whatever
understanding was struck with the
administration. Those deals may result
in exempting certain products from
tariffs in partner countries or look at
inputs from China. Greta joins us now
for more. Greta, good morning and
welcome to the program. Your profession
relies on documents and we can't find
the documents for these agreements with
these countries. How does the legal
profession work without documents?
Right. Well, that's exactly right.
Statements from the administration,
including the president, are not
agreements and they do not have legal
effects. So, we take the announcements
that come with a grain of salt until we
see what's actually implemented. And
what you're seeing with negotiations
with trading partners is that it may
take some time to have a final
conclusion spelling out what these
handshake deal um terms are and ensuring
that there's a meeting of the minds. Um
the devil is in the details and I think
we're seeing that play out and the u
amount of time it is taking to finalize
um implement and announce these
agreements.
>> Given that uh Greta, how do you advise
clients? How do you advise companies on
how to understand some of the agreements
that have been put in place at least in
theory but where the details haven't
really been fully exposed? And I'm
speaking specifically when it comes to
the biggest trading partner with the
United States which is China.
>> Right. Well, what we're seeing with the
agreement with China is really a holding
pattern stabilization um if you will.
You heard Secretary Bessant say um we
like where it is right now. And and I
think that that's what we're seeing in
the continued um uh pausing, the
continued extension of the agreement
that we have in place. Uh the the
relationship was pretty rocky. We saw
the um the tariffs go up quite a bit. We
saw China's export controls and what
we've seen is a pull back from both
sides and attempt to at least um write
the ship and have a bit of stability um
on both sides. and and it seems like
that's where they are for now. And until
we see um further action, I think that
that's where where companies um uh and
where other trading partners should see
that relationship at least for the time
being. It was pretty uh striking to hear
Scott Besson, Treasury Secretary, come
out and say that actually the status quo
that they currently have with China is
working pretty well. It raises this
issue of whether this is just making
nice ahead of some sort of summit
between Xiinping and President Trump or
whether this is something uh that really
speaks to the desire for revenues from
these tariffs more than say national
security or any other kinds of uh
measures. Is that your takeaway from
this?
Well, I think a challenge with the China
negotiations as well as with other
negotiations and the trade policies
overall is nailing down what the
administration's bottom line objectives
are. Um, and they do have a variety that
have been expressed, including raising
revenue, including bringing
manufacturing back, including securing
supply chains when you're talking about
our trade with China. And so
understanding what is that endgame, what
is the mix of policy objectives that
they're prioritizing, you you can't
necessarily achieve everything and you
can't have every uh competing objective
be your first priority. And so part of
it is understanding and and trying to
see from the administration from their
statements and from their outcomes of
what what does success look like when
they're talking about their trade
policy? Where do they want things to be
in a year? Is it all about the revenue?
Is it about um other policy objectives
from supply chains to to manufacturing
to uh getting concessions from trading
partners?
>> Well, let's talk about national
security. As you know, a number of 232
investigations are still pending. And
for people who don't follow the the
numbers like you do and the names,
that's an effort to look at specific
products that might impair national
security. Now, Greta, I just wonder
where you think this is all going to
land and whether you think the decision
on these investigations might be tied to
the outcome of the legal challenges to
the tariffs that have already been
implemented.
>> Well, I I do see them as a bit separate,
right? The the challenges to existing
tariffs that's under um a separate
authority. You're right. There's an
alphabet soup of um and many numbers in
the different authorities, right? And so
those are the the legal challenges now
are to the countrywide uh broad tariffs
that are in place that are the basis for
the negotiations. Um the the 232 tariffs
are sectoral and and those um
investigations many of which are still
outstanding um really um are related to
areas that that do have supply chain
vulnerabilities and where even the last
administration looked at some of the
concerns. So this is critical minerals
um it's semiconductors
and um so those are you know I view on a
separate tract that are really about
trying to find maybe a policy that is um
addressing those supply chain concerns
trying to reshore um uh or nearshore
some of supply chains and and that
they're on a separate track
>> Greta no doubt we'll talk to you again
soon once we see the outcome of those
pending investigations Greta there.
Thank you. Up next on the program,
Alicia Lavine of BNY Wealth, Deborah
Wineswick of Corsite Research, Howard
Mars of O Tree Capital Management, 45
minutes away.
If the inflation data continues to be
held back by uh lower energy prices, it
all softens the economic blow.
>> There should be a pullback in demand. We
haven't seen it yet.
>> The consumer slows down, but the rate of
exchange of inflation will jump.
>> Those that had the capability brought a
lot of inventory and going through that
level of inventory has not yielded the
pass through to consumers that some have
seen, but it'll come.
>> Ultimately, I do think that we're going
to see more softness in the second half
on activity.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning to you all.
The third hour of Bloomberg surveillance
starts right now and the opening bell is
about 90 minutes away. Your scores look
like this. Equity futures down again.
Just softer by a tenth of 1% through
most of this morning on the S&P. Big
tech in focus. Bit of a downdraft in
yesterday's session. The Nasdaq 100 down
by 210 of 1% so far this morning. In
today's session, want to take a little
look at the consumer in America though.
Let's just take a snapshot of some of
the news we've heard in the last 24
hours. Target's got its own problems.
Down 10%, big management change. But go
through the names. Home Depot consumers
tapping the brakes. Off-pric retailer
TJX attracting consumers. McDonald's
pressuring franchise owners to drop
prices. It doesn't scream that
everything's flying off the shelves
right now.
>> If you have an increasing focus on value
at corporate America, what does that say
about the level of consumer spending and
how sustainable it is for consumers? a
real question about just the fragility
there. And that's what you're hearing in
some of these reports. We're dealing
with a nuanced backdrop and a consumer
that's increasingly discretionary. And
that's the reason why a TJX beaten raise
isn't necessarily a positive sign for
the consumer going forward.
>> This is the basic simple argument from
the doves on the FOMC right now. I
imagine it goes something like this. We
meet in the middle of September. We know
we've had a step down in jobs growth.
We're at something like 4.5% on Fed
funds. We all think neutral. We can
agree is somewhere between 3 350. Some
of you crazies out there think it's
higher. I'm being a dove on the FMC
right now.
>> I hear you.
>> Let's cut rates by 25 basis points and
then get to the next one. I think that's
the argument for the doves on the FOMC.
>> And somebody if that was the raging hawk
on the FOMC could push back and say
these companies are still outperforming.
TJ Maxx actually saw it is expecting its
margins to expand more than expected.
You're seeing the likes of Lowe's make
an acquisition with greater confidence
that we might be at some sort of bottom
of the housing uh cycle. All of a
sudden, if you do start cutting rates,
how much do consumers feel better about
things to go up the chain, buy more, and
accept more of those prices?
>> And Governor Waller just starts throwing
things at you across the table.
>> This is going to be fun.
>> There was a big push for a live feed at
the last meeting.
>> I know. I saw that.
>> I take the live feed once just to see
how boring it actually is.
>> That's what I was going to say.
>> So, I imagine it's pretty boring. I
imagine this is C-SPAN stuff. I mean,
maybe with some side conversations that
are a little more
>> spicy. C-SPAN on steroids.
>> Sheets of paper.
>> Say that.
>> I think sheets of paper. Yeah, exactly.
Look, I don't think it's exactly uh guns
ablazing. I do think it's going to be
more heated this time around, especially
given how bifurcated the economic views
are on Wall Street.
>> I'd like to see Steven Min there. That
would be more exciting.
>> I think President Trump would also like
to see that.
>> That's a better kind of season.
>> Well, I think that you might get
entertained.
>> Yeah. You think so?
>> Yeah, of course it does.
>> Yeah, maybe. I mean, look, a lot of
people say that this is the big problem
is group think and how do you avoid that
and maybe it's putting Steven Myron on.
>> I think we've already got some healthy
descent taking place, some healthy
division taking place on the FOMC going
into this. Now, whether the president
had a role to play in all of that, I
don't know, but I think you can see it
in the speeches. There is some division
between these guys right now. I think
that's a good thing.
>> What you can see in the earnings from
corporate America is also some division
and disagreement exactly how strong or
weak things are. This is a confusing
moment. That's why we're talking about
sandworms because ultimately I can't
give you the answer, but we can see
different companies trying to take
advantage of the pockets of strength
that there are still out there.
>> Would you like to explain why we're
talking about sandworms? Would you like
to take the opportunity?
>> Sure. Because I've actually done some
research on Dune and I actually would
like to see it now because I really
think that this idea of that drug that
you can take to make you, you know, live
longer and travel through space. Sounds
great. But I do think just let's put
that aside for a second. I was saying
this is the year of shifting sands and
then John brought us sand words.
>> Have you done that much reading during
this program this morning? You're doing
that in the conversations on the
commercial break.
>> Let's just move on.
>> Okay.
>> Commercial breaks
>> this hour. Sure. Alicia Lavine of BMY
Wealth as the tech selloff drags down
Wall Street. The brilliant Howard Marx
of Oak Tree Capital Management and why
markets are turning from elevated to
potentially worrisome. and Seasha of
Principal Asset Management as investors
look to Jackson Hole. We begin this hour
with stocks down following a sell-off in
big tech. Alicia Lavine of BMY Wealth
writing, "The volatility in tech is
likely to continue into the Fed meeting
and can pull the overall index down in a
seasonally weak part of the Canada."
Alicia joins us now for more. Alicia,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Got to start with a tough one. What was
the last 24 hours about? I think it was
the air pocket of August and just the
fact, you know, NASDAQ is up 56%,
you know, going into yesterday from the
April 8 lows and then S&P is up 34%.
It's the most torid rally in history
from the lows. The return to the old
high was 55 days. That beat up 1998 in
terms of the speed of it. So, time for a
breather. Everybody was piled into the
same trade and you know everybody's on
last two weeks of August people are on
vacation and so you know you've got
junior people in charge of the trading
desk. So
>> and now the junior people in charge are
now asking a similar question that even
the senior people have been asking.
Every time you have some outperformance
in the equal weight, can that rotation
continue? Does it have legs?
>> It's heavily dependent obviously on rate
cuts. So the market's pricing in rate
cuts. We think the Fed's going to
deliver the rate cut in September. I
would say obviously Jackson holds the
one time to change the conversation, but
since rate hikes hikes have been off the
table, we're we're headed towards, you
know, a cut one way or the other. Um the
rotation, the equally weighted index
needs a series of cuts. And when you get
one cut, you don't get one, you get
several, at least another. So that means
50 basis points at some point by the end
of the year, not just 25. Um that would
be positive for risk assets in general.
And as you point out, the data have been
at odds with each other and confusing.
And the real economy starts to look
weaker in the labor market. Labor market
is looking a little bit softer.
Consumers looking a little bit more
bifurcated from the high end and the low
end. So hikes are off the table. It's
actually a great setup for risk assets.
I have a colleague who works in the
fixed income area. He's always like,
"Great time to buy equities." And yes,
it is a great time to buy equities when
earnings are moving higher, right?
earnings are moving higher and the Fed
is cutting into that um and not yet in a
under 1% growth world. That's pretty
bullish for the next 12 to 18 months.
That doesn't mean you can't sell off 10%
here. You easily can sell off 10% here
just to get the excess out. I love it
you say that he says great time to buy
stocks. That's what everybody thinks.
The reason why we've not seen a 1% draw
down draw down uh since uh August 1st
and it's the biggest draw down going
back to April. And I just wonder does
this suggest that there is some
nervousness around valuations
particularly with big tech or do you
think that people are sort of missing
the forest for the trees uh when it
comes or missing the trees for the
forest when it comes to looking forward
and can't get anything right. Stop
laughing at me laughing.
>> You are laughing right there.
>> We did the horse and the cart yesterday
and you and I messaged each other about
it last night.
>> I know. I can't get any expression.
Okay. See the trees for the forest.
Let's just move on. Look, look, stop
telling me control room. I know I'm
doing it wrong. Pause. Reverse. How much
are people getting it wrong that big
tech is the most overvalued part of the
market? So, we don't think big tech is
overvalued. The issue is the rest of the
index is struggling to keep up on the
earning side. So, all the earnings are
coming from tech pulling the index
upward. So, the top 10 are now 40% of
the index, 30% of the earnings. That's
not as extreme as in history, but that's
where the earnings are going. So not as
vulnerable as previous periods but over
on the index level absolutely you know
Nvidia earnings next week are going to
matter because the investment in AI is
pushing the economy. I mean the capex
from all these hyperscalers is about 370
billion this year. That is equal to the
the hit from tariffs which is a tax of
about $370 billion. They're they're
they're canceling each other out,
keeping the economy, you know, in
equilibrium here. That investment is
driving growth in other parts of the
economy, the industrial the industrials
and utilities as well. It matters a lot.
So the earnings for Nvidia matter a lot.
So are we being too cute when we say
that the MIT report talking about how
95% of investment in AI from
corporations has not been profitable
that that's just an excuse for this air
pocket or do you think that there is
something real there? there. Look,
there's definitely concern because the
free cash flow margin has dropped this
quarter and the second quarter because
of the massive capex spend. We don't
think this is the place we're going to
wind up, but you have to believe the
payout is there. If you run some models,
you're getting paid to wait to see if
the theory is correct. We will say this,
the the implementation of AI throughout
the economy is going to drive a massive
product productivity boom. And that's
why we're still investors in equities
because we think it's going to drive
throughout the economy. It doesn't mean
you can't have a transition phase where
earnings are a little bit squishy
because the investment is so high in the
most, you know, obvious part of the
market could drive the index lower. But
we just raised our earnings estimates
for 2025 and 2026. We put a 6,700 uh uh
price target on the S&P for the end of
the year at BNY Wealth and we introduced
our 7500 price target for 2026 because
earnings are simply moving higher. In
the end, there's the real economy very
conflicted there. Some squishy parts of
the market clearly a consend consumer is
under stress. The labor market
equilibrium number is now lower probably
in the 50 to 70,000 jobs per month. no
room for error. On the other hand,
earnings are moving higher. So,
corporate America and large cap
corporate America is able to power
through it. The real economy, it's not
the stock market.
>> This is the question for Chairman
Powell, I think, going into Friday. Is
he focused on the demand side or the
supply side of what's happening in the
labor market? And emphasis in a speech
is always important. If he puts more
emphasis on one versus the other, the
market's going to read a lot into that
about what to expect for September and
beyond. It basically lowers the
threshold for just what kind of headline
numbers there actually have to be. If he
emphasizes the demand side and not the
supply side, if he says this is
something more than just an immigration
story and how many workers there are,
there is actual weakness in this low
higher lowfire market, suddenly that
payrolls report of 35,000 people becomes
a lot more concerning.
>> Have you heard the story about the cart
full of sticks and carrots pulled by the
horse through the forest? Tell you that
story another time. It's a fascinating
one. Alicia, thank you for being
>> I'll take class.
>> You got to put You've got to put the two
days together to really understand
what's been going on.
>> I can't get expressions right. I'm going
to have a tutorial.
>> But I enjoy that you try.
>> I can't either. So, I just don't bother.
>> So, I'd love to help you, but I don't
know what you're talking about. So,
>> we'll get we'll get cheats.
>> All right. Okay. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's your
Hierra. Hey, you Hierra.
>> Hi, John. The White House is
fast-tracking Steven Myron's
confirmation to the Federal Reserve to
put him in place ahead of the FOMC
September meeting. Politico reports
Myron has been meeting with members of
the Senate Banking Committee to
greenlight his nomination ahead of the
full Senate confirmation vote. The
Senate is in recess until September 2nd.
Meanwhile, Federal Reserve Governor
Michelle Bowman said banks and
regulators need to embrace new
technologies such as AI and crypto or
risk their role in the economy. Speaking
to our own Mike McKe yesterday, she said
she would seek to cut down regulatory
scrutiny tied to reputational risk,
suggesting new rules could be made.
Bowman has emerged as a potential
replacement for Fed chair Jay Powell at
the end of his term. And Real Madrid
secured a win in their opening La Liga
game of the season, defeating Osasuna 1
nil. The star of Madrid, Kilian Mbappé,
converted a 51st minute penalty kick to
give his team the victory in yesterday's
Spanish league opener. That's your
brief, John.
>> Yara, thank you. Thank you very much. I
was going through the injury list over
at Real Madrid. That squad is absolutely
absurd. Just some of the world's best
players just out injured and they can
still put out an 11 that's just to die
for.
>> Yeah. which just shows you how good
their roster is. It also shows how hard
they're being played. I mean, the number
of games that they have to play, I just
can't get over that.
>> I'm with you. To have a world class
squad right now, you need ridiculous
depth to get through the average season
for a top club now. It's nonsense.
>> Depth of the pocketbook as well, which
is the reason why
>> greed, Rammo, greed of FIFA and UEFA of
pushing this whole thing too far, but
it's a conversation for another time.
I'm always shocked by the baseball the
baseball schedule. I just think it's
insane the amount of games they have to
play every single year.
>> Yeah. The number of games I have to hear
about every single night.
>> Don't you think it takes something away
from the games that you actually get to
see though? Like let's say Yankees Red
Sox happen twice a season home away.
Like that would be amazing, right?
>> What's that? What's that? You really
hate that.
>> Instead of like why does he keep talking
about that
>> 50 times?
>> I'm sorry. I'll tell him to stop.
>> Is that the kids at home? They want They
want that.
>> They want as many games as you possibly
can have because it also democratizes
the games and they're great, you know,
in terms of access tickets are cheaper.
You can go the American sport pastime.
>> Not trying to ruin it, just you know,
just my view on things. All right, up
next, the morning cause plus Deborah
Widswick of Corsite Research with Target
shares down and a new CEO coming in.
[Music]
It is our expectation at Neora that the
Fed will cut in September and December.
But even if they cut in September, it's
then not going to necessarily be a slam
dunk that uh that there'll be a December
cut. Uh you have to look at well do we
see signs of tariff induced inflation
coming? There's a lot of new information
that we're going to get from the
September 5th and September 11th labor
market and uh inflation reports that we
just don't have right now. And both of
those reports come before the next Fed
meeting. That's David Safe of Neora
weighing in on the situation with the
Federal Reserve. The calendar shaping up
as follows. Payrolls on September 5th. A
week later we'll get CPI and then a week
after that a Federal Reserve meeting.
Equity futures on the S&P down by a
tenth of 1%. On the NASDAQ, we're down
by 0.2. That's the price action this
morning. Here are the morning calls.
First up, Wells Fargo raising its price
target on Home Depot to 450, saying
category sentiment should improve. Your
second call from City downgrading gap to
neutral, saying specialtity retailers
are going to be challenged by tariffs.
And finally, JP Morgan downgrading
General Mills to underweight, writing,
the current environment is challenging
for food producers. Let's stick with
retail. Investors looking for signs of
inflation in retail earnings ahead of
comments from Fed Chair Jay Pow in
Jackson Hole on Friday. Bloombas Mike
McKe joins us now for more. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. Well, we've seen
some indications that there are price
effects going through Home Depot, most
notably yesterday talking about that. Uh
the real question is how much do they
have in inventory that they can sell at
lower prices before they have to start
raising them? We've heard from a number
of consumer product companies that
they're planning in September or October
to start raising prices. So, how much of
a pass through do we get in August that
would show up in that September 11th
report? That's going to be very
interesting for the Fed. It may not be
the bottom line number in terms of what
year-over-year inflation is. It may be
the underlying inflation indications of
what's coming down the pike. Mike McKe,
just before you go, we're all looking
forward to your coverage in Jackson
Hole, but I wanted to take a beat. There
was a man, they don't make hawks like
this for sure anymore. Charlie Plauer, a
gentleman that you know well, I had the
privilege of speaking to on occasion.
Confirmation in the last 24 hours that
Charles Ploser passed away peacefully on
Thursday, August 14th at the Warner
Community Hospice in Amelia Island,
Florida. We knew him well as the
Philadelphia Fed President, Michael. And
that was a man who had his hawkish
beliefs and stood by them. And I can
only imagine what his voice would sound
like on the FOMC in midepptember.
Well, I saw Charlie in July and his
voice was the same as ever, that the Fed
had gone too far, that it needed to
start dialing back its accommodation and
that it needed to start uh move faster
to bring down the balance sheet because
Charlie was an old monitorist. He
believed that too many uh dollars chase
too few goods and you get inflation and
there were a lot of dollars in the
markets. So yes, Charlie would have been
uh firm vote for uh Fed rate hold or if
uh the numbers come in a little hotter
even a rate increase these days.
>> Matt McKe looking forward to your
coverage. Uh just a thought there on the
late great Charlie Pla on the Federal
Reserve. They were the days weren't they
10 years ago. you didn't have group
think and very much somebody who would
have pushed back against some of the
main belief right now that the Fed
should start a real aggressive rate
cutting cycle
>> alongside what was it Richard Fischer at
the time someone you really enjoyed such
great essays fantastic
>> different time where are those hawks on
this Federal Reserve
>> and do we need them
>> good point
>> at a time of real political uh pressure
>> that's a story for later on in the week
let's stick with the consumer target
warning shoppers remain selective in
their spending coresite research CEO
Deborah Wswick writing, "Target is under
pressure, discretionary categories
remain weak, traffic is down, and tariff
exposure plus digital reliability
concerns add to challenges." Deborah
joins us now for more. Deborah, welcome
to the program. Do you believe, and just
to sort of reflect on what we've heard
from Target and other retailers, whether
that's just a problem specific to them
or whether it speaks to maybe a consumer
under some increased pressure?
>> Well, first of all, thanks for having me
on the show. And to answer your
question, I I think it's a really a tale
of two retailers today. If we look at TJ
Maxx and Target, so right both are off
mall and so really truly a direct
comparison. One saw Thompson the
positive territory and one very much in
the other direction which was Target.
And so I think that going back to kind
of the tariff conversation where Target
is very much vertically integrated,
right? They sell a lot of their own
product. There's no vendors to kind of
push back on. Target's probably a
seeing, you know, kind of pricing
pressure and margin pressure that TJ
Maxx isn't. But I think there's also a
lot of execution issues that they're
facing as well.
>> Can you give us a sense of what those
are, Deborah? Because right now it seems
like the market is responding to this
prospect of more of the same when they
were hoping for maybe a fresh look at
some of the management of the company.
>> Great question and I I will say I'm very
much in that camp. You know, we've we've
been very critical, I would say, at
Corsite of their instore kind of onshelf
availability, right? it's not on the
shelf the customer can't buy it. So when
supply chain as basic as that is not
able to be executed there are concerns
kind of throughout also their digital
you know kind of sales have been much
weaker versus I think it was like up a
little over 4% for the quarter versus
their peers and as other retailers are
able to leverage other sources of you
know whether it's data monetization
retail media retail as a service but
target is missing the mark there and I
do worry that not bringing in kind of
outside talent, it is going to be more
the same.
>> Deborah, how much when you just expand
out to the broader retail industry, how
much are all of these companies sort of
an execution by execution story at a
time with a pretty complicated economy
and frankly a pretty discerning
consumer?
>> Great question. um you know if you look
across the you know the bow if you will
I mean Walmart despite its size right
has seen really from an execution
standpoint high on shelf availability
ways to you know monetize
not just in store or not just
merchandise uh they've also continued to
elevate their leadership team and bring
in fresh talent very much focus on AI
and how that can not only drive sales
and execution kind of on the digital
self but also in the physical stores.
And so I think you've got the
shareholder, the you know kind of your
sales associate behind you to really
drive that execution every day. And I
just think when you look at Target, they
haven't been able to do that. Expanding
that over to specialty retailer, let's
call it, you know, mall retail, we've
really seen unbelievable execution. And
I think a lot of it is how the the malls
or the you know the mall reats and the
retailers in those malls have really
started to kind of partner together on
execution. And I think that there is
going to be a bigger story here of the
the halves and the have nots. This isn't
based on income levels although that's
certainly a part of the story. It's
really based on execution.
>> So Deborah just as there was a lot to
unpack there. Just picking up on one
point, how much are you going to hear or
who do you expect to be the winner in
sort of the use of technology in retail
to gain efficiency at a time where there
are a lot of questions about just how
much people are doing that? Who do you
think is going to win?
>> I mean, right now it's Walmart. And I
will tell you that is not at all what I
would have expected to come out of my
mouth a year ago just based on size and
the complexity that you would need to
hit fire on all cylinders based on that.
I would have expected to see more one of
the specialty retailers, but we've
really seen if you look across, you
know, it's it's been kind of like a
Walmart, a Home Depot, a Tractor Supply.
It's been these bigger offm retailers
for the most part. And it really has
just been this this kind of intense
focus on execution and leaning in tech
technology specifically Gen AI. And I
think that that's going to right that's
really just accelerating their growth.
And also I I think it's I actually think
the bigger thing here is it's allowing
them to attract best-in-class talent.
We're hearing that, you know, kind of
best-in-class data scientists these days
are going to Walmart. They're not going
to Amazon, right? They want to have this
physical presence. They want to be able
to kind of, you know, there there's a
pride that's taking place there. I think
it's it's un like anything we would have
expected.
>> Yeah. Deborah Wineswick there of course
I researched. Deborah, thank you. You've
talked about this so many times with
regards to Walmart.
>> You can say whatever you want about
where the profitability is. The
investment is actually in some places
paying off.
>> Up next on the program, the brilliant
Howard Marx of Oak Tree Capital from New
York. This is Bloomberg.
The opening pound's about 60 minutes
away. Equity futures are negative by a
tenth of 1% on the S&P. We're down by
0.25 on the NASDAQ. Let's get you some
morning movers and cross over to Danny
Burgerer for more. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. It's a tale of two retailers.
For one, really solid results from TJ
Maxx in an outlook that was better than
expected. Those shares up 3.8% this
morning with some of the more
valueoriented type retailers
outperforming. Contrast that with what
we got from Target. Target shares are
plunging in the pre-market trade this
morning. They are down by 10 and a3%. It
was another weak quarter of sales. Also
reaffirming their outlook of low single
singledigit declines when it comes to
sales. Also announcing the COO would
become the CEO saying in a statement
that he is addressing matters with
urgency to try to rebuild momentum. And
finally wrapping things up here with a
Reuters report that Howard Lutnik is
looking at other companies reportedly
that have received money through the
chips act and maybe taking a stake in
them. You can see the negative reaction.
For one, Intel falling this morning. We
already know about what the government
plans to do there too. But the other two
biggest recipients of the chips act are
Micron and Taiwan Semiconductor. So
those shares falling five and 1%
respectively. John
>> Danny, thank you. How is this going to
work? Huge focus for us over the next
never mind several months, several
years. How do you have a grant that gets
transferred into a stake, an equity
stake that's non- voting for now? And
this is the reason why we got lost down
a rabbit hole. I'm not going to go there
about shipping sands, but it's this
whole idea of how do you understand what
the framework is going forward if there
is such a funible quality to uh grants
that have already been guaranteed and
exactly what form they will take going
forward.
>> What a moment for that industry. What a
moment for this market. What a moment
for us. Legendary investor Howard Mars
of Oak Tree Capital Management releasing
a new memo called the calculus of value
writing overvaluation can never be
proved and there's no reason to think
there will be a correction anytime soon
but the stock market has moved from
elevated to worrisome. I'm very pleased
to say that joining us on this program
Howard Mark joins us for more. Howard,
welcome to the program sir. I want to
start we want to start with a central
question that you pose yourself. Why are
asset prices so strong in the face of
what you view as net negative
developments? Howard, can you share your
thoughts with us?
>> Uh, I'm glad to be with you this
morning. Of course, as as the quote you
just put on the screen uh indicates, um,
you know, this is all just feeling and
and uh and uh and opinion. None of this
is factual. But it it it does seem that
that stocks are expensive relative to
what I call fundamentals or you might
call reality. And uh you know the
outstanding reason I think is that um
you know there hasn't been a serious
market correction in 16 years. So uh
people get out of the habit of uh of of
thinking about market corrections. Uh
the biggest single mistake I've been
thinking a lot. What is the biggest
single mistake investors make? And I've
concluded that it is that they conclude
that that the way things are today is
the way it'll always be and the things
that have been happening will always
continue to happen. Whereas uh reversion
to the mean is is much more likely. So I
just think that it's worked very well.
Uh being being an equity uh investor has
worked very well. Doing it on leverage
has worked even better. uh concentrating
in a few stocks has been gone very well.
Uh investors are by nature optimistic
and that optimism dies hard and uh and u
you know um uh I just think that the
fluctuations of the market are mostly
related to psychological fluctuations.
Uh and uh and people go from uh
neutrality to liking stocks to liking
them a lot to liking them a ton to
liking them too much. And uh that's the
continuation that creates u bubbles and
you know we're we probably in the early
days of that.
>> When you talk about liking Howard uh
maybe liking these assets a little bit
too much. Can you put into perspective
the last time you saw this type of
environment that left you thinking maybe
some of the opportunities aren't as as
great uh when it comes to buying some of
these assets at current valuations? Is
there another time that this sort of
reminds you of in any capacity?
Well, I guess Lisa uh the last time was
probably around uh 90 uh 97
when when the market was uh uh kind of
falling in love with tech stocks and um
you know uh the market was rocketing
along. People were not worried about the
level of valuations. People were
extremely optimistic about the
opportunities for the internet. Um and
um you know Alan Greenspan famously
cautioned uh that there might be uh
irrational exuberance. Um uh now I
picked 97 uh because even though
Greenspan was concerned about exuberance
the market went on to rise for another
two and a half to three years. Uh so
remember I said we're in the early days.
We're not we're not at a critical at a
nutty uh
valuation. Uh I'm I'm certainly not
ringing the alarm bells as the quote
that you had on the screen uh said. No
reason to think there'll be a correction
soon, but
the point is that things are expensive.
>> They may go on they may go on to become
more expensive, but the fact that
they're expensive should not be lost.
And Howard, I think a lot of people
point to in terms of the echoes of the
late 90s the tech sector of the market
as being the most overvalued. What I
thought was so interesting about your
memo is that that wasn't your take. That
that wasn't your bigger concern in the
market at a time when people are
counting on a certain robustness of
growth and a certain kind of
inflationary backdrop. Why is it that
tech isn't the focus of your concern
this time around?
um a tech contributes to the aura that
surrounds the markets and a lot of
people have been citing the fact that
the so-called magnificent seven stocks
like Amazon and Alphabet and uh have
been contributing disproportionately to
the rise and they responsible for more
than seven stocks uh their dollar gains
have
been responsible for more than half of
all the gains in the 500 stocks in the
S&P. pay 7 out of 500. Um, but they're
great companies. They're at high
valuations. I I think that I can't say
those valuations are excessive. But
the other 493 stocks are quite highly
valued. Not as highly as the Magnus 7,
but nobody says they're the same quality
companies. Quite highly valued relative
to history. And it is the it is the uh
the fact that high valuations are being
applied to more average companies that I
think's more alarming than the fact that
exceptional valuations are being applied
to exceptional companies.
>> Howard, there's a quote you use in this
memo. I enjoyed this quote. You said,
"He who knows only his side, his own
side of the case knows little of that."
And then I worked through the rest of
the memo and there was a conclusion
there about credit and I just wonder sir
whether your focus on equities in this
note offers you a greater perspective on
how much value is offered in credit
right now.
>> Well you know um
it's it's as as John Stewart Mill said
in I believe it was 1859 uh you you have
to know the all the sides of the story
to to understand whether your side uh
holds water. Um uh and uh and I I cite
the the bull case there for why the
market isn't overvalued. Uh I think
that's that's part of the job. But as
you say, uh you know, my conclusion is
that it's it's I'm not, as I said
before, I'm not raising an alarm bell,
but I do think it's time for some
caution. And uh you know, uh this is a
little bit of what we call on Wall
Street talking your own book. Uh but you
know what what uh what I do what what
Oak tree does is mostly something called
credit buying the debts of of companies.
Um and debt is inherently
more uh defensive than equities. And you
have a promise of payment. you know what
your return will be uh if if they if
they pay interest in principle as
promised and most of the time they do.
So I just think that this is a time to
put a little more defense into your
portfolio and investing in credit as
opposed to equities is one way to do it.
>> Is it still defensive, Howard, if you're
looking at credit spreads that that are
the tightest since 1998? I'm looking at
investment grade credit spreads which
are thought to be a more defensive part
of the credit market. I mean does that
sort of question what it means for it to
be defensive where the valuations are
high there as well? Well, first of all,
Lisa, what you see,
debt or fixed income or bonds or what I
call credit, all different words for the
same thing, is different in nature from
equities because you do have a promised
contractual rate of return and you can
say that the promised contractual return
isn't as high as it has been
historically or the the increment that
it provides over treasuries to
compensate for the credit risk is isn't
as higher as high as it has been
historically.
But you can't say that they don't
promise 7 12%.
And
a promise of 7 12% you're going to pay
some fees, you're once in a while going
to encourage uh encounter a a credit
loss. uh I think it's highly likely to
provide let's say a return in the 60s
over the next 10 years. A a contractual
uh guarantee approaching something in
the sixes over the next 10 years is I
think more defensive than being in the
stock market at these elevated
valuations. That's the point. Uh and uh
and uh you know you you you just said uh
tighter than they have been since 98. Um
and uh if you if you looked at where
they were in '98 and you you
hypothesized a put an investment in a
portfolio of high yield bonds in 98, how
did you do over the last 17 years, 27
years? And I think you did fine. That's
my point. It's it has a high probability
of doing fine. Whereas stocks if the
valuations are elevated
have some reasonable probability of
doing less than fine.
>> Is the United States still the focal
point for defensive investments?
uh you know uh I think I I said in the
memo that I think the US is still the
best place in the world to invest. Uh
the things that make the US exceptional
uh the spirit of innovation, the free
markets, the rule of law, the capital
markets, the the growth and dynamism, uh
the great companies, these things are
still all true, but as I said in the
memo, we we're the best place. we may be
a little less best than we used to be.
Uh the world is thinking that maybe the
US is a little best less best than it
used to be. And um and I I can't I can't
argue against that. I mean uh
fundamentally as an investment
environment u
I think uh things are uh are a little
bit deteriorated.
Is there a place where you see has more
opportunities right now just based on
valuations and based on maybe a firming
up of contract law and other aspects
that really lead to a robust investment
backdrop?
>> Um well, as I say, I I still think we're
the best place in the world to invest.
Um and and um
you know
we're a great car at a high price. You
can get some uh cars around the world
that are not as great as ours. Cheaper.
Which do you prefer?
uh less good at at a cheaper price or
better at at a more expensive price. Um
so you know other parts of the world do
not have our dynamism.
Um
uh and uh lots of places in the world
are overregulated compared to the United
States. Um uh but if they're on sale
relative to uh the US uh it's not
unreasonable to want to have some
representation there.
>> Howard, wonderful to get your thoughts
as always. Sir, you've been generous
with your time. We appreciate it. Thank
you very much. The legendary Howard
Marks there of Oak Tree Capital
Management following the release of his
latest memo in the last week or so. I
always skip to the conclusion then work
backwards. I do that with all the notes.
The conclusion here on credit is
interesting. I'll share it with you if
you missed some of that conversation.
The narrow yield spreads mean today's
prospective returns on credit are
generous relative to those on risk-free
assets in the context of history. But
the returns are significant in absolute
terms, competitive with the historical
returns on equities and supported by the
issuers's contractual promise to pay
interest and return principle. Something
that can't be said for stocks. How do
you analyze an equity market that's
based on hopes and dreams and trying to
price in some sort of multiple based on
uh number of expectations that cannot be
proven out? And when that multiple gets
higher and higher and higher, it starts
to maybe reduce some of the
attractiveness to people who are looking
long-term.
>> Fantastic piece from Howard Marks, the
calculus of value. Check it out on his
website on oakree capital.com. Let's
give you an update on stories elsewhere.
Some breaking news just moments ago with
your Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihira.
>> Exactly, John. President Donald Trump
posting on truth social that Fed
Governor Lisa Cook should resign. The
call comes after FHFA Director Bill Py
wrote to Attorney General Pam Bondi
asking to investigate Cook. PY accused
Governor Cook of using falsified bank
documents and property records to
acquire more favorable loan terms.
Meanwhile, President Trump met with the
world's two biggest mining companies to
discuss a copper project in Arizona that
could supply the US with a quarter of
its demand. According to a LinkedIn
post, the CEOs of Riointo and BHP group
discussed the industry's capacity to
deliver domestic supplies of copper and
other critical minerals. And Indian
Prime Minister Narendra Modi praising
improving its relationship with China.
This after India and China agreed on
bilateral trade and investment flows to
resume direct flights and process more
visas. It's coming as US India relations
are souring after President Trump
threatened to boost tariffs unless New
Delhi stops importing Russian oil.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John Yhara
appreciate it. Thank you very much. Up
next on the program we'll set you up for
the day ahead. Plus Seash of Principal
Asset Management on that breaking news
on the Federal Reserve. That
conversation up next.
[Music]
25 basis points doesn't doesn't change a
lot there from our perspective,
especially if you do have a shutdown in
October, which we do think is a high
probability. You hear, you know, the
president being upset about weak labor,
you know, and jobs numbers and then at
the same time, right, he wants to have
this lower tenure. So, he wants a
stronger labor market and a lower
tenure. And those two things can
sometimes be in conflict.
>> That was Monica Guerrero of Morgan
Stanley on the program just moments ago
early this morning on the Federal
Reserve and the Fed's next move. The
Fed's next move is in Jackson Hole,
Wyoming, when the chairman gets the
committee together and has a big
conversation about the future. The
elephant in the room is the political
pressure coming from the other side of
Washington DC. More specifically coming
from the White House. This was the
latest this morning. We've been tracking
this story. The director of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency, Bill Py, is
urging the Attorney General Pam Bombi to
investigate the Federal Reserve Governor
Lisa Kirk over a pair of mortgages. The
president taking that story, putting it
out on social media just moments ago and
writing this that Kirk must resign now.
This feels somewhat uh predictable in
some ways because there has been a focus
of reshaping the Federal Reserve.
Putting some of the allegations aside,
it just highlights how fraught this
meeting is in Jackson Hole at a time
where there is so much political focus
on reshaping the way that they set
monetary policy. Framework review. How
valuable is this framework review when
we've got a lamed up Fed chair and an
administration pushing to change the
Federal Reserve as an institution from
the bottom up? Yeah, people will be uh
asking that question and how much does
that threat kind of loom large over some
of the way that these things are
shifted. Look, a real question here and
this is something that the market is
looking for is how much credibility will
whoever comes into the Fed continue to
lend to the idea of independence and how
much will global leaders on central
banks try to edify that message.
>> Let's stay on this breaking news and
bring in our next guest. So, let's cross
over to Sema Sha, Principal Asset
Management. Sema, welcome to the
program. Just want to build on this
story just with you quickly. How do you
view these developments and how much
pressure is on this institution going
into Jackson Hole and their annual get
together?
>> Hi John. Yeah, I mean look that pressure
is clearly building uh day by day. It's
one of the concerns that we've had in
the last couple of months is that you're
going to see more and more of uh
politicization as you have more and more
people joining the Fed who would be more
aligned with this idea that you know
come uh whatever happens to the economic
data there should be rate cuts. So it is
concerning uh and we are getting close
to a numbers game. You know, we've
already seen uh Steven Myron talking
about 50 basis point cut. We've already
got a number of uh Fed uh Fed committee
members talking about the 50 basis point
cut potentially as a way you know to
advertise uh their availability to be
the next Fed chair. This is getting to a
numbers game. So I I don't think you
know typically in a normal time we
wouldn't put too much emphasis on this
latest news but I think that this is a
little bit more meaningful than what you
would traditionally see.
>> Is it having an effect? I think that's
the ultimate question for a lot of us in
markets. When you look at market-based
expectations of inflation, Sema, do you
see them becoming unanchored in any way,
shape, or form off the back of these
developments?
>> I don't think they're entirely becoming
unanchored, but you are seeing this
creep higher. Uh, so much is going to
really depend on what the the Fed
chooses to do uh at the next meeting.
The 25 basis point cut seems absolutely
set in. If you're starting to veer to a
50 basis point cut, then I think you're
going to get into slightly dangerous
territory where people start to say,
well, look, what in the economic
fundamentals really justify that
emergency size cut? Uh, and once you get
to that point, then there's going to be
question marks about inflation
expectations. You get a push up in terms
of term premier. Then you start to get
to a point where actually the rate cut
begins begins to backfire and you could
see the upward movement in in 10ear
Treasury yields and and and further up
on the long end. Sema, what are you
hoping to hear on Friday? Uh, when we do
hear that speech from Fed Chair Jay
Powell at 10 a.m. Eastern time, is there
anything that he could come out and talk
about or would likely come out and talk
about that would alter the way you think
about investment heading into your end?
>> Unfortunately, I don't think there is
that much uh that is going to come out
from Jackson Hole, which will be a real
gamecher. I think what we're likely to
see in a way which could be more
impactful is hearing from all of the
other central bankers uh pushing back
and really defending the Fed about the
importance of independence. Now, in
terms of the framework, to your point
earlier, you know, talking about a new
framework when it's an outgoing Fed
chair and there's a ton of criticism
with a potential for the makeup of the
Fed to be fairly reshaped uh over the
coming months. I do think that markets
are going to treat it with a little bit
of caution in terms of how much they're
going to read into it and how much
they're going to change their pricing
off the back of that.
>> It seems like right now uh markets are
coalesing around the idea that this
isn't an incredibly strong economy in
the United States. Uh it's not an
incredibly weak one either, but it's one
that could warrant rate cuts in the near
future. I'm just wondering how much you
think that people are overlooking the
weakness side of things that might drag
down some of the valuations just on
basic economic principles.
I think that's still it still does
appear in economic forecast. I mean when
we do our downside uh scenarios we're
still allocating a 30% uh probability to
a recession. So it's you know it is not
um I think completely ignored but
certainly if you're looking at the roll
call of economic data as you said there
is a cooling economy going on but we're
not seeing really clear signs that there
is a meaningful meaningful slowdown. Uh
we are getting to the point where over
the next two months the economic data
should give us a much clearer picture of
the impact of tariffs but you know
there's so much more to be said in terms
of watching how the consumer is
performing even before they start to
maybe potentially feel the impact of
higher prices. So we are at that bit of
a cusp where it makes sense certainly
from my perspective that maybe the Fed
should start cutting rates. It's a
question of how much they're going to
cut rates uh and how much of the data
dependence is starting to flow out of
the Fed and maybe a little bit more
politics coming in.
>> Sema appreciate your time. Simma Sha
there of principal asset management got
to take a beat. The calendar shaping up
you know what it looks like Jackson Hole
Friday payrolls first week of September
CPI after that a week later a week later
the Federal Reserve meets. data could
change the story all over again. Could
completely upend this whole conversation
just like that one payrolls report.
>> You know, I'm just thinking about the
conversation that we had earlier this
morning about the seasonality and how
we've seen this movie before that the
first half is relatively weak and the
second half is relatively strong. And
that's my question. How much do we get
head fakes here given the fact that
there are number of of influences in
particular the one big beautiful bill
that kick in later this Jackson Hole
just got a little bit more interesting
for you and the team.
>> Look, I'm fascinated to go there. I want
to see what they think about this labor
market, how they're measuring it. I want
to know and I'm very excited to go
hiking.
>> Travel safely bra and enjoy the hike,
too. Looking forward to your coverage
alongside TK. Coming up tomorrow, John
Sto of Oenheimer, the former Fed
Governor Betsy Duke, Tomasaurus of
Strategus, and Megan Robson of BMP
Parabar from New York City. Thank you
for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.